Post:^
PM Modi to personally greet each policeman in country on Republic Day     
The biopic on Indian convict Sarabjit Singh, who was beaten to death in a Pakistani jail, is being helmed by 'Mary Kom' director Omung Kumar.
The biopic on Indian convict Sarabjit Singh, who was beaten to death in a Pakistani jail, is being helmed by 'Mary Kom' director Omung Kumar.
^Cricket Country:^
Hello and welcome to CricketCountry’s live coverage of the upcoming Vijay Hazare Trophy 2015-16 Group B match between Karnataka and Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium in Bengaluru on Friday, December 18.
Karnataka are placed third in their group at the moment, after winning three and losing a couple in their five games in the round-robin stage so far, while J&K will be playing for pride in the upcoming match, having been knocked out for good after losing all five matches that they’ve featured in so far.
For Karnataka, winning this match by a big margin is a must lest they intend to pile further misery on themselves after they were knocked out of the ongoing Ranji Trophy 2015-16 in the group stage, finishing fifth in Group A.
From here, J&K need another 213 runs to win this contest.
He already has 34 runs on board.
3 | BATSMEN: Manish Pandey 22(21), C M Gautam 8(11): WIKCET! Karnataka might see themselves in trouble as they are suddenly four-down with just 125 runs on board.
Waseem Raza claims a second scalp of the match as he dismissed new batsman Samarth R.
Waseem Raza bags his first wicket of the match as Agarwal gave a catch to  Sandeep Singh on the last delivery of the 19th over.
Karnataka are coming off a superb win in their previous match where they had restricted Kerala at 49.
Karnataka, who had emphatically won their second consecutive title in the previous season, thrashed Kerala in a completely one-sided contest in their previous Group B fixture at Bengaluru.
It turned out to be the second-shortest match in the history of the tournament.
TOSS UPDATE: J&K win toss, elect to field.
^
