The New Indian Express:^
What everyone mostly discussed when they saw him was whether the baby looked more like the mother or the father.
When one antibiotic did not work, they switched to another in a desperate attempt to save the little one.
Nothing worked, Bonney grew weak with each passing day.
A test confirmed that the antibiotic-resistant bacteria or superbug was passed onto the embryo from the mother.
Suresh Kumar (name changed), a 32-year-old marketing professional in Bengaluru, has never visited a doctor in the last 10 years.
Be it a viral or bacterial infection, he has the habit of calling up his pharmacist friend and getting a prescription for his ailments.
Based on his friend’s advice, Kumar takes antibiotics and analgesics, and claims there is nothing wrong as he has been doing this for a decade now.
Contrary to Kumar’s firm belief, these are nothing but side-effects of analgesic overuse.
If not contained, uncontrolled consumption of antibiotics and other drugs can soon lead to an epidemic.
But if antibiotics will not work, the epidemic cannot be controlled and there will be catastrophic results,” says Dr Ashok J Tamhankar, national coordinator for Indian
 In 2001, eight billion units of these drugs were consumed and the number rose to 12.
9 billion units in 2010, which means on an average an Indian took 11 antibiotic pills per year.
With the abuse of antibiotics comes the new threat of superbugs.
According to experts, on an average 800,000 die in India annually, of which 58,000 were reported to be dead due to superbugs-related complications in 2014.
Superbugs are drug-resistant, human-killing microbes that modern medicine struggles to combat,” says Dr D S Chadha, Associate Director, Internal Medicine, Fortis Flt Lt Rajan Dhall Hospital, New Delhi.
With antibiotics being the most abused category of medicines—others being pain-killers, antidepressants, cough syrups, abortion pills and anti-allergens—Dr R Sundararaman, general physician (internal medicine) at SIMS Hospitals, Chennai, says people usually tend to self-medicate whenever they develop symptoms of cold, fever or sore throat.
A patient complaining of sore throat should not be directly put on a course of Penicillin or Azithromycin even if these antibiotics are meant to treat these conditions.
These drugs, however, should be saved for advanced symptoms.
Just like antibiotics, antidepressants and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) or analgesics—taken for headaches, fever and pain—which also need a medical practitioner’s prescription to be bought, are easily sold over the counter in pharmacies across the country.
Sujatha (name changed), a 42-year-old camerawoman working with a television channel in Bengaluru, had the habit of popping analgesic drugs to get rid of her frequent bouts of headache.
This turned into a serious issue as continuous use of these drugs led to renal failure.
With none of her family members ready to donate a kidney, she died after some time, leaving behind a five-year-old child.
Rampant abuse of pain management medicines can lead to kidney trouble.
Long-term abuse of this medication affects certain other parts of the body leading to unwarranted complications.
It is important that the primary healthcare giver makes the patient aware of the dangers of abusing drugs.
Since there is no regulation on the prescription and sale of such drugs, there is rampant abuse.
The greatest demand is for Alprax, a drug used for treating depression, anxiety and panic disorders.
“The scariest fact is that parents sometimes give large unprescribed doses of this medicine to their children.
Though Kerala is said to have the best health practice in the country, the irrational or overuse of drugs in the state is reported to be alarming.
“Over-the-counter sales of drugs and lack of treatment protocol can be said to have led to the increased use of drugs,” says Dr Althaf A, associate professor at the Thiruvananthapuram Medical College and convenor of  IMA Public Health Assurance Committee.
“OTC drugs are not banned in the country, which is a great challenge.
Apart from this, there is no proper drug quality checking mechanism and no marketing regulations.
In developed countries, especially in the UK, no drug can be purchased without prescription.
When drugs are sold, the stores maintain a record of the names of the doctor and the patient.
All these help in controlling the irrational use of drugs,’’ says Althaf.
While many use old prescriptions to buy these medicines, others have friends in medicine shops who oblige without much fuss,” he adds.
While the wrong dosage could be harmful and even fatal in psychiatric drugs, Gnanadurai says people often take more than twice the recommended dosage while self-medicating.
While the side-effects of an improper dose of antidepressants and sleeping pills could result in loose motions, nausea and blood vomiting, an overdose could even cause a cardiac arrest, coma and eventually death in patients, and affect the foetus in pregnant women.
“A few years ago, a teenager was rushed to the OT of a hospital I was working in, with palpitation, dizziness and severe chest pain.
Whether it is the promise of quick relief from pain or a desire to self-medicate, people just don’t want to invest time, money and energy in something which, they believe, is under their control.
People are also short on time and do not have the patience to sit through OPD working hours to meet a doctor.
Also the lack of a good consulting doctor in the neighbourhood is a deterrent and causes them to abuse medication,” says Praveen.
^
