Published by Sanjay
Summary
My education and work experience has been very multidisciplinary - Computer Science, EE Engg, Physics, Humanities and social sciences. At BITS, Pilani, I studied Physics and Engg (Electrical & Electronics), At IIT D, I studied Comp. Tech. The missing gap in my exposure to humanities and social sciences was filled up at IGNCA, where for many years, I worked very closely with some eminent experts of HSS to explore novel ways of using IT in these disciplines. Later, My PhD thesis was in the field of software development education. I have enjoyed my work as an educator, designer, researcher, software engineer, and team leader. Since 1988, I have taught many courses to 4000+ students at NSIT, DCE, IMT, DU, and JIIT. 1000+ of these students have been very talented; they stimulated and challenged me to expand my circumference. I owe my learning to them. Because of my work for the UNDP project at IGNCA and organisation of annual International Conference on Contemporary Computing (IC3) at JIIT, I have been lucky to work with a large number of eminent international scholars in various fields. My blog, Engineering and Computing Education: http://goelsan.wordpress.com.My main interests:1. Contribute in the transformation of engg education especially CS education by bringing a higher focus on pedagogies of engagement.2. Contribute to bring computing closer to society, humanities, education, and arts. 3. Create and promote a holistic and liberal approach towards computing education.4. Encourage entrepreneurship among engg students.5. Leverage the potential of internet to enhance quality of CS education.My PhD thesis is available at http://eric.ed.gov/?q=sanjay+goel&id;=ED516414 Specializations: 1. Design of higher educational programs by using pedagogies of engagement. 2. Integration of seemingly disparate concepts and fields. 3. Conceive and Create novel synergies of computing with other disciplines.
Experience
Professor and Head, Department of CSE and IT (Initially joined as Associate Professor)Jaypee Institute of Information Technology (JIIT), NoidaJuly 2002 – Present (13 years 6 months) In 2004, I got the opportunity to lead the largest deptt. of JIIT. I have used it to introduce many innovations in CS education with the help of of 50+ faculty members. We have created an unconventional curriculum, many new courses and also transformed the content & pedagogy of many courses. Few main innovations are as follows:1. New MTech programs - a. IT & Entrepreneurship, b. Data Analytics2. Student centric BTech curriculum with large number of electives and integrated courses3. Team teaching in lecture classes3. Mini Proj, Programming tasks, & Challenging Exams in almost all CS/IT courses.4. Cross level peer mentoring by final year students.6. Active learning in lectures of CS/IT courses. 7. Puzzle solving in 1st CS course. Conf./Workshops organised at JIIT:1. 2002: Comp. Appln. in Archaeology2. 2007: Excellence in Computing Education 3-9. Int'l Conf. on Contemporary Computing: IC3- 2008, 09, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 1510. 2010: Mini Conf. on Contemporary Intelligent Systems.11. 2015: FDP on Emerging Trends in Computing EducationI have taught following courses at JIIT:1 IT Venture Creation ('15, 20 students)2 IT Prod. Innovation and Creativity ('15,12 studs)3 Activity Centered Des. and UX ('14,'15,45 studs)4 HCI ('12-14, 100+ studs)2 Problem Solving and Res. Meth. ('13,14,90 studs)3 CSCW ('12,9 students)1 Image Proc.('04-05, 11-12, 120 stds)2 Comp. Graphics ('04,10-11, 300+ stds) 3 IT for Sustainable Development (MTech Seminar course) ('11,30 stds)4 Engg. Failure and Disasters (MTech Seminar course) ('12,25 studs)5 CSCW (MTech Seminar course) (2010,'11, 50+ stds)6 Adv. DS ('03 - 10,1000 stds)7 Software Arteology ('09-10,70+ stds)8 Th. of Knowledge, Learning, and Res.Learning Sc. ('05-09, 200+ stds)9 Human Aspects for IT/ HA of SE. ('07-09, 110+ stds)10 DS (2002 -07, 1200+ students)11 Res. Meth. ('05, '06, 50 stds)12 Adv.DIP ('05, 20+ stds)13 Multi-dimensional DS ('05, 20 stds)
  Director (Multimedia) (Initially joined as Project Manager)Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA), New DelhiMay 1995 – July 2002 (7 years 3 months) Led a multidiciplinary team. It was a wonderful opportunity to collaborate with scholars and artists in varied fields from all over the world, to realise the power of multi and trans-disciplinary work, and the centrality of HCI in software. It became my training ground to learn about human cognition and potential associations of software with arts, culture, design, psychology, and philosophy. My reductionist approach to learning got transformed to holistic approach. The boundaries of disciplines melted away. We created many interactive multimedia CDROMs and also a web enabled digital library. During this period, this grew as the largest digital library on Indian art and culture. It received 16 lakhs hits during the year 2001 from almost one lakh host computers through out the world. As a pioneering project in Cultural Informatics, through several conferences, workshop, lectures, seminar, exhibition etc., our team sensitised appoximately 2,000 persons at different level in the usage of multimedia technology for cultural documentation. The UNDP evaluation mission made following conclusions in their final report submitted in January 2002 - "... project has broken new grounds by demonstrating concretely the power and appropriateness of multimedia technology to capture and communicate holistic understanding of culture that too in the context of a multicultural economically developing country. This significant outcome of the project, the mission recognizes, has potential to feed into several programmes of sustainable development, not only in India but in the developing region as a whole..." I also contributed as visiting faculty to teach some courses:1. Computer Graphics (ME: DCE, 1997, UG: Delhi University 2000, 2001)2. Multimedia (ME, DCE, 1997, MS: Quantum, UIUC centre, 1999, UG: Delhi University 2001)3. S/w Engg I and II (MS: Quantum, UIUC centre, 2000)
Sr Lecturer (initially joined as lecturer)Netaji Subhash Institute of Technlogy (formerly DIT)June 1988 – June 1995 (7 years 1 month) These were the formative years of now a very reputed institute. Students and faculty worked hard. Great students. Wonderful experiences. A teacher is often nostalgic about initial groups of students. Great memories.I designed and taught following courses at DIT:1. Computer Graphics (1988-1995, 1998,1999)2. Digital Image Processing (1991-1995)3. Informations Systems and Data Management (1988-1992)I also visited IMT, Ghaziabad to teach Computer Graphics in 1992 and 1993.
ProgrammerNational Informatics Centre (NIC), New Delhi1986 – 1988 (2 years) I set up my first computer centre, got my first set of clients, and my first boss at NIC. This was the exciting time for computing. Anything and everything in computing was causing celebration and debate. This job gave the opportunity to understand people's needs, aspirations, anxieties, and also the misconceptions about computing.
Projects
International Conference on Contemporary Computing (IC3)Starting 2007 Since 2008, the International Conference on Contemporary Computing, is jointly organized every year by the Jaypee Institute of Information Technology, Noida, India and the University of Florida, Gainesville, USA. It focuses on topics that are of contemporary interest to computer and computational scientists and engineers. In the past, IC3 has had speakers from MIT, UC Berkley, Harvard University, CMU, University of Texas, Columbia University, University of Southern California, UC Santa Barba, University of Minnesota, Georgia State University, University of Geneva, IITs, IIITs, Yahoo Research, Google, Adobe Systems, IBM Research, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Air Force Research Laboratory (USA), Cisco Systems, Intel Labs, TCS Innovation Labs, SETLabs (now Infosys Labs), ST Microelectronics, Landis + Gyr, Strand Life Sciences, and Ministry of Communications and Information Technology, etc. Past conference proceeding have been published in Springer’s Communications in Computer and Information Science Series, ISSN: 1865:0929. CCIS is abstracted/indexed in ISI Proceedings, Scopus, DBLP.Team members: Sanjay Goel, Sanjay Ranka, Srinivas Aluru, Manish Parashar
Develpment of an Faculty Development Program on Emerging Trends in Computing EducationStarting July 2015 Team members: Sanjay Goel
Design of New Curriculum for BTech (CSE) and BTech (IT)Starting June 2010 After a debate of several years, a very new kind of BTech curriculum was approved in 2015. It was fundamentally different from the old model in terms of much higher number of elective courses that were increased from 8 to 18. In terms of credits, the project component was almost kept undisturbed. The core courses were reduced in number and this was done my integrating some old courses. We also introduced a new idea of Flexi-core that allowed the student to take one of two flexi-core courses in that particular slot. Flexi-core further increased the choice based component. Team members: Sanjay Goel
Teaching IT Venture CReationStarting January 2015 This is a core course for MTech (IT & Entrepreneurship).Outline:Heuristics and anecdotes of Venture Creation, IT Ventures, Business Plan, Business Model, StrategyLearning OutcomesThe students will be able to:1.	Develop an understanding of the traits and dispositions associated with entrepreneurship2.	Develop an understanding the entrepreneurial heuristics and guidelines suggested by a good variety of several successfull entrepreneurs and scholars 3.	Develop the ability to create a business plan for an IT venture4.	Develop the to design a business model using at least two different templates for creating an IT venture5.	Develop the understanding to develop a broad strategy for creating and managing an IT venture as well as risk management.Team members: Sanjay Goel
Teaching IT Product Innovation and CreativityStarting January 2015 This is a core course for MTech (IT & Entrepreneurship).Outline:Theories of Creativity, Innovation, Mind tools for problem solving and innovative thinking, Models for innovative Design processLearning OutcomesThe students will be able to:1.	Develop an understanding of the traits and dispositions associated with creativity and innovation2.	Develop the ability to apply various mind tool for creative and innovative thinking3.	Develop the ability to apply Value Proposition canvas as a model for innovative product design4.	Develop an understanding of the human psychology and IT product features that facility habit formation among the users.Team members: Sanjay Goel
Teaching Activity Centered Design and User ExperienceStarting July 2014 This a core course for MTech (IT & Entrepreneurship). Outline: Human made environments, Systems Thinking, Systems Engineering, Human factors, Human errors, Cognitive Engineering, Requirement Engineering, Task Analysis, Activity Analysis, Context Analysis, Distributed Cognition, Design principles, Human factor methods for analysis, design, and evaluation, Usabililty and Performability, Guidelines, Complex Systems, Case studies.Human needs and role of technology, Paradigms of HCI, Ergonomics, Usability, Design, Cognitive Science, Interaction Design, Information Systems Analysis, Activity Theory, Guidelines for HCI design, Guidelines for Game Design, CSCW, Empirical investigations and Research methods for HCI.Learning Outcomes:The students will be able to:1.	Develop an understanding of the different paradigm of HCI wrt to IT product design2.	Develop an understanding of the various taxonomies, models, and frameworks of usability, UX, and design guidelines3.	Design domain specific taxonomies, models, and frameworks of usability, UX, and design guidelines for a variety of application domains, e.g., ecommerce, education, games, etc.4.	Develop an understanding of context analysis taxonomies and models for system analysis5.	Apply activity theory for analyzing system requirementsTeam members: Sanjay Goel
Developing a new MTech (Information Technology and Entrepreneurship)Starting October 2013 Conceived and designed India's first interdisciplinary MTech program that combines the content of IT and entrepreneurship management. It is designed to train and support CSE/IT/ECE graduates to develop new products/services and set up their own technology ventures.Team members: Sanjay Goel
Developing a new curriculum for MTech (CSE)Starting May 2013 In 2007, we had developed and implemented a curriculum for MTech (CSE). It was being felt that we need to upgrade this curriculum to make more contemporary and challenging. The new curriculum was developed and implemented in 2013. It took around one year of intense work and brainstorming with many stalwarts and luminaries of CS in India and USA. Team members: Sanjay Goel
Cross-Level Peer Mentoring by Final year Undergraduate StudentsStarting 2005 A few hours of weekly engagement of senior students in mentoring junior students can greatly supplement faculty efforts to enhance the technical competence of a much larger number of junior students. Since 2005, we have been systematically engaged thousands of senior undergraduate students in cross peer mentoring of their juniors. I believe that cross-level curricular peer mentoring has multi-dimensional effects on mentees as well as mentors. It should be viewed as a necessary educational experience for seniors that helps them enhance several of their own competencies. I strongly advocate for introducing it as a conscious student teaching/learning strategy in the engineering curricula across the country.Team members: Sanjay Goel
Teaching "Problem Solving and Research Methodology"Starting January 2013 In 2013, I introduced an MTech and BTech elective, Problem Solving and Research Methodology. 26 students took this course. In 2014, it has been floated again and around 50 students have taken this course.Team members: Sanjay Goel
Teaching HCIJuly 2012 – November 2012 In 2012, I introduced and taught this new elective at JIIT. In 2012, 40 final year BTech students and in 2013, 29 students registered in this course . Team members: Sanjay Goel
Teaching CSCWJuly 2012 – November 2012 In 2012, I introduced and taught this new elective at JIIT. 8 MTech students and 1 PhD scholar registered in this course. Team members: Sanjay Goel
Teaching Image Processing1990 – 2012 I started teaching Image Processing in 1991 at DIT (now NSIT). Since then I have taught this course several times at various institutes. Team members: Sanjay Goel
Teaching Computer Graphics1988 – 2011 I started teaching Computer Graphics in 1988 at DIT (now NSIT). Till 2011, I have taught this course several times at various institutes. The course content continued to evolve over the years.Team members: Sanjay Goel
Teaching Theory of Knowledge, Learning, and Research2005 – 2009 Initially titled as Learning Sciences, during 2005-09, this course has been one of my most enjoyable teaching experiences. Team members: Sanjay Goel
Teaching Human Aspects for IT2006 – 2009 On the request of few students, in 2006, I introduced and taught this new elective at JIIT. In 2006, it was called Human Aspcetd fro Software Engineering. In sebsequent years, the scope was widened and a new name was assigned to this course.Team members: Sanjay Goel
Teaching Data Structures2002 – 2010 During 2002 - 07, I regularly taught large lecture classes of Data Structures as well as Advanced Data Structures to BTech student for many years. In some batches, the students strength touched 270. In 2005, I introduced and taught a new elective on Multi Dimensional Data Structures to BTech students. During 2002-2010, some times, I also taught Advanced Data Structures to MTech students. Team members: Sanjay Goel
Web-enabled Digital Library of IGNCA1999 – 2002 In 1999, after being appointed as the Director (Multimedia) at IGNCA, I floated the idea of leveraging IGNCA's archives, publications, and collections for transforming IGNCA website from an information brochure into a very rich web-enabled digital library of art and culture. Fortunatley, I was blessed with the whole hearted support of IGNCA leadership and research groups, especially Dr. Kapila Vatsyayn, IGNCA's Academic Director. The heads of all research divisions of IGNCA also extended their full cooperation. Of course our entrire team at Cultural Informatics Lab (CIL), IGNCA got into full gear and we created a pioneering digital library on Indian arts (http://www.expressindia.com/news/ie/daily/19991007/ile07006.html). Within few months, we uploaded thousands of multimedia objects like images, video clipplings, audio clippings, digital books etc. on this website. We also enhanced our users' experience by offering many kinds of advanced interaction functionalities. Very soon IGNCA website became very popular and started attracting a large number of art lovers and scholars from world over. Media also appreciated the richness, aesthetics and usability of this digital library (http://ignca.nic.in/press01.htm). In terms of outreach, it turned out to be most successful component of the UNDP funded project that was instrumental in setting up the CIL group at IGNCA. I was happy to see that even after I left IGNCA in 2002, the CIL team continued their efforts to further enrich this digital repository and in 2003, it was recognised as one of India's most visited website of that era (http://ignca.nic.in/press02.htm). Team members: Sanjay Goel
Designing New Curriculum for BTech (CSE), BTech (IT, and MTech (CSE), and Dual Degree (BTech-MTech (CSE))January 2007 – May 2007 A New Curriculum was designed in 2007 in Collaboration with Prof. SL Maskara, Dean JIIT, who had joined JIIT after his lifelong career at IIT Kharagpur, and few years at DAIICT, Gandhinagar and LNMIIT, Jaipur. Some novel ideas like 30/195 credits for minor and major projects and 8 elective courses in BTech curriculum were introduced. I wanted to add more flexibility at that time, but was advised to wait. This goal was later achieved in 2015 when the curriculum was again redesigned.Team members: Sanjay Goel
Skills
Research 
Curriculum Design 
Higher Education Management 
crossdisciplinary thinking 
Instructional Design 
Higher Education 
Teaching 
Interaction Design 
Computer Graphics 
Computer Science 
Digital Image Processing 
Data Structures 
Algorithms 
Software Development 
Leadership 
Training 
Image Processing 
Publications
Do Engineering Faculty Know What's Broken?NTLF, USA2006 Even after so much has been written about the role of 'action' and 'interaction' in classroom setting, much to the disliking of students, they remain passive (though perhaps very attentive and careful) recipients of information in the engineering lecture classroom. Lectures are being conceived and delivered with an almost singular focus on course coverage and may be seen as textbook-centric. Students are rarely engaged in activities that give them the opportunity of actively and interactively developing and expressing their ideas. The discourse in the lectures is generally not dynamic. Interaction, if any, remains limited to seeking clarifications in the teacher's presentation. Such lectures do not contribute to deep and effective learning. The increasingly unimaginative usage of already prepared computer slides further decreases the element of spontaneous evolution in this discourse. Because of the rapidly increasing pressure for increasing content due to the exponential rate of information explosion, information-oriented, teacher-centric lectures fail to realise whatever potential they may have of leading students to develop their creativity, critical thinking and innovative problem solving skills. This study also suggests that engineering students report much more effective learning when opportunities of 'action' and 'interaction' are created by teachers inside lecture classrooms.Authors: Sanjay Goel
What Do Engineers Want?: Examining Engineering Education through Bloom's TaxonomyAustralasian Association for Engineering Education2004 Using Bloom's taxonomy as the basis for an empirical investigation, this paper examines what engineering students and professionals want from engineering education. Fifty engineering students, from Computer Science and Information Technology courses, were asked to rank activity verbs in order of their impression about frequency of their occurrence in their assignments and examinations. Another group of sixteen students was asked to rank activity verbs as per their learning effectiveness. Thirteen professional Engineers were also asked to assign ranking to activity verbs in order of their perceived importance. A set of fifteen examination papers were then scrutinised for the usage of these activity verbs. Data analysis revealed that there is high correlation between students' impression and examination papers. It also demonstrated that there is high correlation between what engineering students and professionals want. However, a negative correlation was discovered between what students and professional engineers want and the activity verbs used in evaluative and non-evaluative tasks. Other established criterion for imparting good engineering education, such as the guidelines provided by ABET (Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology) are discussed in light of the findings of this study. We conclude that, to foster creativity, critical thinking and innovative problem solving amongst engineering students we need to develop flexible curricula that aim to engage the students in higher-level cognitive activities. Changing the verb set used by engineering educators can be employed as a catalyst to facilitate this strategic transformation in engineering curriculum.Authors: Sanjay Goel, Nalin Sharda
Software Engineering Approach for Teaching Development of Scalable Enterprise ApplicationsIEEEFebruary 2009 Enterprise Applications have recently gained immense focus as an important part of the computing curriculum. Moreover, due to their increasing complexities and ever-increasing volatility, it is required that a software engineering approach is applied to the development of these applications so that they become more maintainable and scalable. This paper presents a model for teaching an integrated course that aims toward technology-specific infusion of software engineering practices in the development of enterprise systems. The model is based on experiences that we have gained, for the past four years, in teaching one such courseAuthors: Sanjay Goel, Ritu Arora
Enriching the Culture of Software Engineering Education through Theories of Knowledge and LearningIEEEFebruary 2009 Authors: Sanjay Goel
Investigations on required core competencies for engineering graduates with reference to the Indian IT industryEuropean Journal of Engg. Education, Taylor and FrancisOctober 2006 Fifty-four engineers and managers working with Indian and multinational IT companies, with an average experience of 7.5 years, have responded to a survey about engineering education. Respondents have assessed the importance of 49 parameters. Twenty-three of these parameters correspond to core engineering and general professional competencies for successful professional career. A new figure of merit has been used for classification of competencies into vertical categories of pivotal, critical, obligatory, desirable, and complementary. The findings are also compared with that of Successful Practices in International Engineering Education (SPINE) study. Authors: Sanjay Goel
A Novel Approach for Collaborative Pair ProgrammingJournal of IT Education, USA2010 The objective of this paper is to propose a new framework for implementing pair programming in the classroom. Our model of collaborative pair programming is based on Dillenbourg’s set of four conditions to set up an active collaborative context. We have transformed the traditional form of pair programming to suit this framework. Students in a pair first work independently and then work on a combined task that brings together their individual tasks. The framework has been experimented within a real classroom.Authors: Sanjay Goel, Vanshi Kathuria
Competency Focused Engineering Education with Reference to IT Related Disciplines: Is the Indian System Ready for Transformation?Journal of IT Education, USA2006 This paper collates recommendations about core competencies for engineering graduates by NSF, National Academy of Engineers (NAE), Engineering Professor’s Council (EPC), and authors like Felder, Bordogna, and others. It brings together the contemporary prescriptions of accreditation agencies in US, UK, Australia, Singapore, and Japan and also the recommendations made by ACM, IEEE, and other professional bodies with specific reference to various IT related disciplines. These accreditation agencies, NAE, IEEE, ACM, other professional agencies, and researchers have identified a number of core competencies as essential attributes of graduating engineers. There are great similarities in these recommendations that are now being increasingly used for enhancing the quality of engineering education.Based on Marzano’s (1993) Dimensions of Learning, a three dimensional taxonomy of competencies has been proposed to categorize the recommended competencies along the three dimensions of attitudes and perceptions, productive habits ofmind, and meaningful usage, extension, and acquisition of knowledge.Authors: Sanjay Goel
Activity based flexible credit definitionTomorrow's Professor, Stanford University2003 This paper attempts to address the issue of course credit and proposes a strategy of activity based flexible credit definition as one component of learner centric educationAuthors: Sanjay Goel
PhD Thesis: Design of Interventions for Instructional Reform in Software Development Education for Competency Enhancement2010 We have proposed a three-tier taxonomy of twelve competencies and a comprehensive unified framework of pedagogic engagements in software development education. We have also discussed some instructional interventions developed by us, manifesting some aspects of this framework. All these interventions were administered in a chosen set of existing computing courses. Some new courses have also been developed in the process. The development of the framework of pedagogic engagement, and these interventions for instructional reform of software development education, has been an intertwined and highly spiral process.Authors: Sanjay Goel
What is high about higher education: Examining engineering education through Bloom’s taxonomyNTLF, USA2004 Authors: Sanjay Goel
Digislim: A learning tool for logic level digital electronicsComputers in Education Journal, ASEE, USAJuly 2009 Authors: Sanjay Goel, Siddharth Batra
A Model Design for Computer based Cognition Support SystemsIGNCA1998 Authors: Sanjay Goel
Multimedia Systems for Art and Culture: A Case Study of BrihadisvaraSPIE, USA1997 Authors: Sanjay Goel, Anil K. Jain, Sachin Agarwal, Vipin Mittal, Hari Sharma, Ranjeev Mahendru
Vehicle License Plate Identification and RecognitionIPCV, USA2009 Authors: Sanjay Goel, Priyank Singh, Siddharth Batra, Anshul Jain
Content Based Retrieval System for Archaeological ImagesIPCV, USA2008 Authors: Sanjay Goel, Akshay Asthana, Ranjan Dutta, Anshul Jain, Deepak Gupta
Towards Real-Time Monocular Video-Based Avatar AnimationISVC, USA2008 Most of the commercial motion capture techniques, be they marker-based or marker-free, are either expensive or require complex laboratory setup. These constraints limit their use for home entertainment or interactive gaming oriented applications. In this paper we present a real-time system for color marker-based human motion capture in a monocular image space for avatar animation. The proposed system requires a single webcam and cheap color markers for its operation resulting in low cost and user friendliness. Real-time efficiency is achieved by tracking through variable-sized window search based on a process noise-adaptive Kalman filter. The depth information is recovered with the aid of human anthropometric information in a perspective projection model. Finally experimental results of the system are presented as tested with a number of video sequences. Authors: Sanjay Goel, Utkarsh Gaur, Amrita jain
Multimedia CDROM - Devadasi MuraiIGNCA, New DelhiDecember 1997 This was the first multimedia CDROM project completed by us at Cultural Informatics Lab (CIL), IGNCA. It was a great experience to lead a multi-disciplinary team of IT and graphics art professionals of CIL and collaborate with Dr. Saskia Kersenboom from Holland to create this CDROM. The term "Devadasi" refers to a female ritual specialist; good luck and well being are in her hands. Flickering lamps, cooling water, music and dance are her instruments. In Tamil Nadu this millennia old tradition has seen great hey days.Authors: Sanjay Goel, Saskia Kersenboom, Many Colleagues at CIL, IGNCA
Multimedia CDROM - Muktesvara TempleIGNCA, New Delhi2000 This was the second multimedia CDROM project completed by us at Cultural Informatics Lab (CIL), IGNCA. It was a great experience to lead a multi-disciplinary team of IT and graphics art professionals of CIL and collaborate with Prof. P.S. Fillizat and DR. Vasundhara Filliozat to create this CDROM. A user-friendly interactive system allows the user to browse the multi-dimensional architectural, sculptural and inscriptional programme of this Calukyan temple in Karnataka. Authors: Sanjay Goel, P.S. Filliozat, Vasundhara Filliozat, Many Colleagues at CIL, IGNCA
Multimedia CDROM - Rock ArtIGNCA, New Delhi2000 The reponsibility to lead the completion of this work came on me in 1999. Authors: Sanjay Goel, Many Colleagues at CIL, IGNCA
An Overview of Selected Theories about Student LearningIndo-US workshop on Effective Teaching at College/University levelFebruary 2011 Rich corpus of classical as well as contemporary theories of learning can be leveraged to review and transform the educational processes for all groups of learners. The engineering educators can innovatively adapt many of these theories to redesign pedagogic engagements for their students in their courses. A revision in Bloom's taxonomy wrt engineering education is also proposed.Authors: Sanjay Goel
Is Today’s PhD Education in India Aiming To Create Inspiring Intellectual Leaders of Tomorrow?India Education ReviewMarch 2011 This article focusses on the rigour and quality of PhD education in India. Authors: Sanjay Goel
Admission Time: What Can Indian Students and Parents Look for Beyond Placement?India Education ReviewJuly 2011 Authors: Sanjay Goel
Nurturing Creative, Thinking EngineersEngineering Education: Challenges, Changes, Champion Teachers/ WIPROSeptember 2011 This paper is published in the book published by Mission 10X, WIPRO. Viney Kirpal is the editor of the book. Authors: Sanjay Goel
Cross-Level Peer MentoringEngineering Education: Challenges, Changes, Champion Teachers / WIPROSeptember 2011 This paper is published in the book published by Mission 10X, WIPRO. Viney Kirpal is the editor of the book. Authors: Sanjay Goel
Evolution of Software Development Education – Part I: Beginning of Computing and Computing EducationOne Change a Day, Blog CalendarMarch 2012 This article was originally posted on my blog and has been republished by One Change a Day, Blog Calendar under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported LicenseAuthors: Sanjay Goel
Learning to Write Programs with Others: Collaborative Quadruple ProgrammingProceedings of CSEET 2012, IEEEApril 2012 Most software development is carried out by teams of software engineers working collaboratively to achieve the desired goal. Consequently software development education not only needs to develop a student's ability to write programs that can be easily comprehended by others and be able to comprehend programs written by others, but also the ability to write programs with others. However, the academic curriculum hardly puts any structured emphasis on nurturing these competencies. Hence, collaboration in program development needs special attention in our engineering curriculum. For this, we propose a three-staged model for collaborative program development, termed as the Collaborative Quadruple Programming, which is an extension of the collaborative pair programming approach proposed earlier by the second author. The proposed model combines all the levels of collaborative engagements in the four-dimensional taxonomy of pedagogic engagements in software development education proposed by the Sanjay Goel.Authors: Sanjay Goel, Ritu Arora
Collaboration in software development: a spotlightACMSeptember 2012 Some models of collaborative software development and theassociated technology of groupware are reviewed in this paper.The paper concludes with a discussion about a research agenda forproposing a model for collaborative software development usingagile methodologies.Authors: Sanjay Goel, Ritu Arora
Peer Mentoring in a Technical Institution: Undergraduate Mentoring in Software EngineeringLexington Books2013 This is a book chapter in Smith, T. (Ed.), Undergraduate Curricular Peer Mentoring Programs: Perspectives on Innovation by Faculty, Staff, and Students. Lanham, MD: Lexington Books.Authors: Sanjay Goel
An empirical evaluation of wavelets based viz-a-viz classical state-of-art to image denoising. IC3 2013: 331-336IEEEAugust 2013 Authors: Sanjay Goel
LectureKhoj: Automatic tagging and semantic segmentation of online lecture videosIEEEAugust 2014 Online educational lecture videos are very popular nowadays. However, effective search of relevant videos remains a difficult task. Texts displayed in lecture video slides have important information about the video content. Therefore, it can be utilized as a valuable source of content analysis and tagging. In this paper, we present an automated method for semantic segmentation and tag recommendation of online lecture videos using OCR technology.Authors: Sanjay Goel, Esha Baidya
PoGest: A vision based tool for facilitating Kathak learningIEEEAugust 2014 We present a vision based tool for enriching the conventional method of learning Kathak. Teachers can record their dance steps using PoGest and give it to the learners for practice according to their pace and convenience. PoGest will help learners to analyze their dance movements by giving them immediate feedback in the form of similarity score and also the concurrent display of juxtaposed recordings of their own performance with respect to that of the teacher's.Authors: Sanjay Goel, Sonal Gupta
CoSDEES: A framework for developing CSD environments for educational settingsIEEEAugust 2014 The recent drift towards the use of Collaborative Software Development (CSD) practices in software industry may prove to be an escalating movement towards changing software development philosophies. Consequently, research is in progress in developing related computing technologies for supporting the collaborative engagements of software developers. Eventually, it is essential that software engineering curriculum also focuses on developing collaborative programming skills of the students. Fostering collaborative learning and programming competencies of students through collaborative software development education at undergraduate level would facilitate their amalgamation into the team-oriented and intensively-collaborative, software development industry. In this paper, we propose a framework, CoSDEES, for the collaborative engagements of students involved in software development, in the form of CSD Activity WorkSpace. The proposed framework is based on Activity Theory. Furthermore, we also propose a comprehensive set of requirement specifications for the CSD environment that manifest the proposed framework. These specifications can be used as a set of guidelines for implementing CSD environments in educational settings. The primary aim of this research is to augment the collaborative activities of students engaged in software development, through the usage of the proposed collaborative software development environments.Authors: Sanjay Goel, Ritu Arora
Collaborative teaching in large classes of computer science coursesIEEEAugust 2015 Collaborative teaching was applied by eight teachers for teaching nearly 700 students in four different sections of three different computer science courses with section strength varying from 120-240. Different forms of collaborative teaching were tried. Collaborative teaching at JIIT, Noida has turned out to be successful for large classes of the strength of 100 and above.Authors: Sanjay Goel, Sandeep K Singh, Suma Dawn, Sanchika Gupta, Taj Alam, Kashav Ajmera, Prashant Kaushik, Hema N
Investigating syntactic and semantic inconsistencies in Collaborative Software DevelopmentIEEEAugust 2015 Since more than a few decades now, Software Configuration Management (SCM) systems have played a key role in orchestrating concurrent activities of collaborative developers. These SCM systems help in maintaining consistency of volatile codebases that are being frequently modified in order to accommodate change. Additionally, various Collaborative Software Development (CSD) tools have been developed to supplement the underlying SCMs, and provide workspace awareness information to software developers. These tools inform developers about possibilities of arising inconsistencies in project codebase due to concurrent activities by collaborative developers on shared artifacts. This paper elaborates on scenarios of collaborative activities of software developers that introduce syntactic and semantic inconsistencies in the project repositories. Furthermore, a discussion on the current state-of-art research in the area of CSD tools is presented, together with their major contributions. The paper identifies, the crucial problem of semantic inconsistencies caused due to behavioral changes on artifacts that has not been sufficiently addressed by existing CSD tools. Finally, a novel method to capture indirect conflicts (syntactic and semantic) is proposed which uses dependency graphs, with proposed additional notations.Authors: Sanjay Goel, Ritu Arora
Education
JIIT, NoidaPhD, Computer Science --- Software Development Education2003 – 2010 Thesis: http://eric.ed.gov/?q=sanjay+goel&id;=ED516414Comment (11/4/10) by Prof. MN Faruqui, Ex VC, AMU and Ex Dy Dir., IIT Kh: "...I would not have been able do this massive and monumental work and remain on track" The thesis proposes a taxonomy of competencies, a framework of pedagogical engagements, and some instructional interventions for s/w dev. education. Following Qs were investigated: 1. How has S/w dev. education evolved?2. What is meant by competent and professionally oriented s/w developers? 3. What is the degree with which the various components of traditional processes of engineering education succeed in creating opportunities for enhancing these competencies? 4. What practices succeed in developing competencies, and under what circumstances? 5. What kind of instructional interventions are required? How can the existing education theories be used to educate competent s/w engrs? 300+ experts, 1000+ undergrads, 100+ teachers were surveyed/consulted.  
  Indian Institute of Technology, DelhiMTech, Computer Technology1988 – 1991 It could have been more exciting and enriching.
  Birla Institute of Technology and Science, PilaniBE and MSc, EEE and Physics1981 – 1986 Great challenging exams. Some great teachers.Activities and Societies: Theatre, Poetry (goelsanreflections.wordpress.com), Magazine editing.
M.M.Sen. Sec. School12th, Science1975 – 1981 Many great teachers helped me build my initial foundations. Lot of personal care and attention was paid to me by many teachers.Activities and Societies: Theatre, Poetry (goelsanreflections.wordpress.com), Magazine editing
Interests
Facilitating the youth to think and create new possibilties.
Contributing to create Creative teams.
Integrating disciplines. 
Recommendations
A preview of what LinkedIn members have to say about Sanjay:
Prof. Sanjay Goel came across as a strict yet concerned human being when I used to study in college. I realized later through our many discussions and dialogues that he is not someone who chose to enter this profession as an occupation, rather as someone who could influence others to lead a more balanced, informed and a curious life. He always tries to develop scientific temper amongst his students, gives them the liberty to experiment and challenge existing systems and encourages them to think as a wholesome individual. He is perhaps one of those rare people I have met who will ALWAYS, and I repeat ALWAYS, motivate you to THINK BIG, RID ONESELF OF MEDIOCRITY and LIVE A WORTHY LIFE.
All in all - a very quality conscious, pleasant though strict, well-mannered and balanced person who will always wear his thinking hat.See moreSee lessI have studied 4 subject (and don't know how many mini projects) under him (or 'with' him as he says). His teaching methods are unique and very effective. He strives to get innovative ideas from his students and inputs them with his thoughts and problems to mould it better. Influence of his teachings is timeless. Due to his efforts, Computer Science and Information Technology department of JIIT saw massive changes in evaluation system where actual “continuous evaluation” process took shape. Undoubtedly, he is the most precious gem of JIIT. He has potential to carry a vision and change the conventional education system to make it practical and industry friendly. I wish great success for him.See moreSee lessSign up to see who recommended Sanjay
