The Hague:                     Far-right politician Geert Wilders was Monday named by a television poll as Dutch politician of the year as his Freedom Party gains ground amid a polarising debate on Europe's migrant crisis.
Wilders won 25 percent of the 37,000 votes cast, and became the first politician to win the annual award three times from the Een Vandaag (one Today) programme, broadcast on the public broadcaster Netherlands 1.
"He has a feel for the concerns that many Dutch people have about asylum seekers," wrote one participant in the poll which has run since 2004.The news came as Dutch officials revealed the country will this year break all records for the number of migrants seeking asylum in The Netherlands.
So far by mid-November, some 54,000 people had requested asylum in the country -- surpassing the last record of 52,500 requests made in 1994 at the height of the Balkans conflict.
"It is great to be chosen by the public as Politician of the Year. It is a huge honour," Wilders said in a statement.
He added it was "an encouragement to fight even harder for the interests of the Netherlands and the Dutch people in 2016."
Opinion polls show that Wilders's party, the anti-immigrant PVV, is on track to win more than 35 seats in the 150-seat Lower House if elections -- not due to be held until 2017 -- were to be held today.
Europe is grappling with its worse migrant crisis since World War II, and Wilder's message that he would close the country's borders is gaining traction with some Dutch voters.                
Sections
File photo of Dutch populist and euro-sceptic Geert Wilders.(Associated Press)
Share this story on
................................ Advertisement ................................
................................ Advertisement ................................
^NDTV:^

  
  

Dutch far-right Freedom Party leader Geert Wilders: his comments led to a record 6,400 complaints to the police. Photograph: AFP/ ANP/Martijn Beekman
Dutch right-wing politician Geert Wilders has been given a date of March 18th for his second trial for inciting racism and hatred – at a time when his party is topping opinion polls as a result of widespread anger over immigration from Iraq and Syria.
In June 2011, Mr Wilders was found not guilty of inciting hatred against Muslims when he compared the Koran to Hitler’s Mein Kampf and described Islam as a fascist religion, comments the judges found were “within the bounds of legitimate political debate”.
This time, Mr Wilders’s comments were aimed specifically at the Netherlands’ Moroccan population of about 390,000 people – representing about 10.4 per cent of Dutch nationals with ethnic roots – whose young males he claims are responsible for a disproportionately high share of crime.
His comments led to a record 6,400 complaints to the police, a series of high-profile resignations from his Freedom Party and are widely believed to have prompted a backlash that damaged his chances of a much stronger showing in the European elections the following May.
At the time, the Freedom Party leader refused to withdraw the comments and said he would not allow himself to be silenced because he did want “fewer Moroccans and less Islam in the Netherlands”.
Mr Wilders was questioned under caution by police on December 8th last year.
Afterwards, the public prosecutor’s office issued a short statement: “Politicians can go a long way in what they say and remain protected by the right to free speech. However, that freedom is limited by the ban on discrimination.”
The opening of the case on March 18th is expected to be largely procedural, focusing on the background to the charges and setting dates for witnesses, an issue which has already been controversial.
Earlier this month the court relented and said some of the witnesses would be allowed, although it refused to say publicly which had now been deemed acceptable or why.
Mr Wilders meanwhile was voted Politician of the Year last week by a Dutch TV current affairs programme.
Subscribe.






Syrians in Berlin tell of their flight from war-torn homeland. Words and pictures: Jacobia Dahm







Government forces battle Kurdish rebels in country’s southeast    







Scaremongering by xenophobic right-wing parties distorts reality    







Schools, shops and other businesses reopen in Syria’s third city following UN-brokered truce    







As Spain goes to polls, Ciudadanos’s Albert Rivera may become kingmaker, if not PM   

Which Daily Digest would you like?

  
  

Invalid email or password.
^The Irish Times:^

by Oliver Lane22 Dec 20150
The Party for Freedom leader has come under steady fire from leftist politicans and the mainstream media this past week since a riot in the Dutch town of Geldermalsen over the establishment of refugee camps near a number of Dutch towns. Incredible footage shot at the time showed the protesters pushing back police lines and tearing up fences as they approached the town hall.
A meeting of the town council over the decision to locate a migrant camp had to be abandoned halfway through an address given by a hijab-wearing speaker as the protesters reached the plate glass walls of the hall.
Responding to those who have criticised his silence over the riot, and the perceived influence he may have had over it in urging individuals to “resist” the camp, Mr. Wilders issued a blistering statement. “Politicians and the press can drop dead. Distance yourselves from your cowardice and betrayal of the Netherlands to Islam. Sukkels”.
Mr. Wilder’s use of the Frisian insult Sukkel is interesting in this context. While it can be translated simply as ‘sucker’ in English, it can also be taken to mean a number of colourful insults ranging from idiot, to laggard, and dork.
In addition to the riot last week, a Somali migrant family has also been attacked in the Netherlands in the past week, with the finger of blame again being pointed at the politician. Fireworks were fired at the home of the family, and a leaflet left behind bearing the words “foreigners must go, this is just the beginning” and a picture of Mr. Wilders, reports DutchNews.nl.
Geert Wilders is a veteran campaigner in Europe and has used his time as member of the Dutch and European parliaments to speak out about the dangers of the Islamification of Europe. He also campaigns against the European Union, which in an interview with Breitbart London this year he said was “robbing us of our national identities, our nation states”.
 
Breitbart London, Immigration, Geert Wilders, Netherlands
Comment count on this article reflects comments made on Breitbart.com and Facebook. Visit Breitbart's Facebook Page.
Send A Tip
Send A Tip
Sign up for our newsletter
Send Me the Latest
Copyright © 2015 Breitbart
SUBSCRIBE TO THE BREITBART NEWSLETTERSwitch to Full Site
Copyright © 2015 Breitbart



^Breitbart News:^

Dutch anti-Islam campaigner Geert Wilders on Monday refused to bow to pressure from other MPs to distance himself from the recent spell of anti-refugee violence.
‘Politicians and the press can drop dead,’ Wilders said on Twitter. ‘Distance yourself from your cowardice and betrayal of the Netherlands to Islam. Suckers.’
Wilders has previously issued statements rejecting the violence at protests about plans to locate refugee centres in several Dutch towns.
However, he has not made any comment in the wake of the Geldermalsen riots last Wednesday in which a mob of between 70 and 80 people attempted to storm the town hall, and hurled bricks and fireworks at the building.
Before the meeting, Wilders had urged people to ‘resist’ the establishment of a refugee centre in the town of 15,000.
‘Wilders has ignored the opportunity to condemn the violence in Geldermalsen,’ deputy prime minister Lodewijk Asscher said. He described the PVV leader, recently voted politician of the year by viewers of television programme EenVandaag, as a ‘trader in fear’.
Wilders expected Muslims to distance themselves from IS terrorism in the wake of Paris,’ said Labour MP Attje Kuiken. ‘Then I would expect him to distance himself from violence and racism in the Netherlands.’
Later in the week, fireworks were hurled at the home of a Somali family in Pannerden, south east of Arnhem. The perpetrators left behind a leaflet with a photograph of Wilders and the text ‘foreigners must go, this is just the beginning’.
Politiek en pers kunnen de rambam krijgen. Neem zelf lekker afstand van jullie lafheid en verraad van Nederland aan de islam. Sukkels.
— Geert Wilders (@geertwilderspvv) December 21, 2015

© 2014 DutchNews | website by Vindustries
© 2014 DutchNews | website by Vindustries
^DutchNews.nl:^

The trial of PVV leader Geert Wilders on charges of inciting racism and hatred will start on March 18 with a procedural hearing, The Hague’s district court said on Friday.
The hearing will focus on the investigation into the charges against Wilders and set dates for witness appearances and the rest of the trial.
Wilders faces prosecution for his comments about Moroccan nationals on March 12 and 19, 2015, during and after the local election campaign.
In March, Wilders told supporters in Loosduinen that he would rather there were ‘fewer Moroccans’ in The Hague.
Seven days later, during a post vote meeting with supporters, Wilders asked the crowd ‘and do you want more or fewer Moroccans in your city and in the Netherlands?’ To which the crowd chanted ‘fewer, fewer, fewer’. ‘We’ll arrange that,’ Wilders said, smiling, when the chanting died down.
The comments led to over 6,400 complaints to the police and a slew of resignations from the PVV.
OffenceThe public prosecution department says that while it considers Wilders has insulted people on racial grounds and encouraged discrimination and hatred, this does not mean he has committed a criminal offence.In June 2011, Wilders was found not guilty of charges of inciting hatred and discrimination against Muslims and non-westerm immigrants by judges in Amsterdam.The court ruled that some of Wilders’ statements were insulting, shocking and on the edge of legal acceptibility, but that they were made in the broad context of a political and social debate on the multi-cultural society.Related StoriesPVV leader Geert Wilders will be prosecuted for inciting hatred (update) Geert Wilders’ inciting hatred trial resumes Wilders’ inciting hatred trial winds up Wilders’ inciting hatred trial reopens 
The public prosecution department says that while it considers Wilders has insulted people on racial grounds and encouraged discrimination and hatred, this does not mean he has committed a criminal offence.
In June 2011, Wilders was found not guilty of charges of inciting hatred and discrimination against Muslims and non-westerm immigrants by judges in Amsterdam.
The court ruled that some of Wilders’ statements were insulting, shocking and on the edge of legal acceptibility, but that they were made in the broad context of a political and social debate on the multi-cultural society.
© 2014 DutchNews | website by Vindustries
© 2014 DutchNews | website by Vindustries
^DutchNews.nl:^

On Thursday PVV leader Geert Wilders posted a picture of a grandstand full of people in white robes on Twitter. “This is the Moroccan parliament”, he wrote. The tweet provoked a a stream of reactions from people who wanted to show Wilders what other things are.
According to RTL Nieuws, Wilders’ tweet was in response to a tweet from PVV parliamentarian Machiel de Graaf. De Graaf commented on PvdA MP Khadija Arib’s candidacy for Tweede Kamer president. “Someone who is subordinate to the king of Morocco must not be president of the Dutch Tweede Kamer”, De Graaf tweeted.
Hundreds of people decided this was a good time to show the PVV leader what other things are. The firs reply was a picture of a croissant. “This is a croissant”, the tweed read. “This is a pug”, “this is another pug”, “this is a black pug”, “this is a screenshot of your tweet”, “this is a chair in South Africa”, “this is my desk”, “this is my father’s day gift’, “this is the naked but of Justin Bieber” and “this is a beer with dentures in it”, is just some of the many responses.
Dit is het Marokkaanse parlement. pic.twitter.com/wz4RqswWli
— Geert Wilders (@geertwilderspvv) December 17, 2015

.@geertwilderspvv Dit is een croissantje. pic.twitter.com/Hwkw7S6Ave
— Pieter Derks (@pieterderks) December 17, 2015

@geertwilderspvv Dit is een stoel in Zuid Afrika. @emileaffolter pic.twitter.com/s6aoO4FPmt
— Koen de Regt (@koenderegt) December 18, 2015

@koenderegt @geertwilderspvv @LamyaeA dit is mijn bureau pic.twitter.com/CtxsIudxkx
— Emile Affolter (@emileaffolter) December 18, 2015

@DokterBertho @geertwilderspvv Dit is mijn cadeau voor vaderdag. pic.twitter.com/wyGrwQhTkR
— Ethiek is overal (@Gert_van_Dijk) December 18, 2015

. @geertwilderspvv Dit is een glas bier met een kunstgebit erin. pic.twitter.com/meLxIzpZ2n
— Marijn de Vries (@marijnfietst) December 18, 2015

.@geertwilderspvv Dit is de blote kont van Justin Bieber… pic.twitter.com/L40tqBGGQE
— Prinses Beatrix (@BeatrixPrinses) December 18, 2015

 
^nltimes.nl:^

by Breitbart London11 Dec 20150
Mr. Wilders made similar comments this November, demanding Europe close its borders to Muslims, which increased his popularity in the Netherlands.
“I hope [Donald Trump] will be the next US President. Good for America, good for Europe. We need brave leaders”, he tweeted on the 7th of December, the day Trump announced the policy.
He also re-Tweeted Trump’s announcement; “Just put out a very important policy statement on the extraordinary influx of hatred & danger coming into our country. We must be vigilant!”
I hope @realDonaldTrump will be the next US President. Good for America, good for Europe. We need brave leaders. pic.twitter.com/FWJSaQdClM
— Geert Wilders (@geertwilderspvv) December 7, 2015

Mr. Wilders is a renowned campaigner against radical Islam across Europe and much of the world. He has spoken at PEGIDA rallies in Germany, at the ‘Draw Mohammed’ competition which was attacked by Jihadists in the US, and most recently in Australia.
He tweeted out the news that Mr. Trum’s new policy has also seen him surge in the poll, and explained to the American reader: “Also in The Netherlands, 100,000 Muslims – 11% – say it’s acceptable to use violence.”
Also in The Netherlands, 100,000 Muslims – 11% – say it's acceptable to use violence. #nomoreislam #DonaldTrump pic.twitter.com/oulWN8xUI1
— Geert Wilders (@geertwilderspvv) December 10, 2015

Mr. Wilders has repeatedly called for similar policies to Mr. Trump. In September he described the migrant crisis as an “Islamic invasion” that threatened Europe’s “prosperity, security, and identity”. Later in November, he demanded Europe close it’s borders to Muslims. He has also warned that mass immigration of Muslims leaves Europe vulnerable to attack from Islamists.
He told AFP at the time: “I’m not asking for anything strange, I am asking that our government close its doors as Hungary did … that we close our borders to those we consider to be migrants, not refugees.”
His stance made him incredibly popular in his native Netherlands. Polls revealed that if an election was held just after the comments were made in November, his young PVV party would win 38 seats in the 150-seat Lower House, its largest-ever showing in a predictive survey.
Breitbart London, Donald Trump, Trump, Geert Wilders, Geert Wilder, Trump Campaign, Muslim Immigrants, PVV, Dutch Party For Freedom
Comment count on this article reflects comments made on Breitbart.com and Facebook. Visit Breitbart's Facebook Page.
Send A Tip
Send A Tip
Sign up for our newsletter
Send Me the Latest
Copyright © 2015 Breitbart
SUBSCRIBE TO THE BREITBART NEWSLETTERSwitch to Full Site
Copyright © 2015 Breitbart



^Breitbart News:^

  
  

Dutch right-wing politician Geert Wilders, who said it would be good for Europe and America if Donald Trump became the next US president. Photograph: Michael Kooren/Reuters
 Dutch right-wing politician Geert Wilders has said he hopes Donald Trump will become the next president of the United States – because it would be “good for America and good for Europe”.
Mr Wilders backed the controversial Republican candidate in a post to his Twitter account, @geertwilderspvv, late on Monday evening – around the same time Mr Trump issued his controversial statement suggesting that Muslims should be banned from entering the US.
In the tweet, which included an image of the Stars and Stripes, Mr Wilders – who is to face trial next year for allegedly “inciting discrimination and hatred” against Moroccans living in the Netherlands – added: “We need brave leaders.”
Mr Trump and Mr Wilders now have in common that each of them has called for the closure of his country’s borders to Muslims – claiming that to do otherwise would be to leave them vulnerable to attack by Islamist extremists.
Responding in September to a plan by European Commission president, Jean-Claude Juncker to distribute refugees from Iraq and Syria among EU states, Mr Wilders described the migrant influx as “an Islamic invasion” that threatened Europe’s “prosperity, security, and identity”.
Earlier on Monday, Dutch prime minister Mark Rutte responded to a video posted on YouTube in which Mr Wilders addressed Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdogan and told him Turkey should “forget about” joining the EU.
Mr Wilders described Mr Erdogan as “a dangerous Islamist who is raising the Islamic flag”.
Mr Rutte called the video “completely inappropriate” and “an insult to the Turkish people” – though he acknowledged Mr Wilders’s entitlement to express his views.
Largely as a result of opposition to the 9,000-plus refugees allocated to the Netherlands under the Juncker scheme, opinion polls are putting Mr Wilders’s Freedom Party ahead of Mr Rutte’s Liberals – giving them 26 per cent of the vote. This would make the Freedom Party the largest in the Netherlands if an election were held, with 39 out of 150 seats in parliament – putting Mr Wilders in a strong position to form a coalition government. The stand-off over refugees has become so tense a social evening in the town of Nijmegen, where local people were to cook with asylum seekers, had to be cancelled because of “dozens of threats” to the nursing home where it was due to be held.
Marjolein Faber, leader of the Freedom Party in the Senate, commented: “Most of those cooking would be men with other values who would be able to walk through the nursing home where female staff members are often alone at night.”
Subscribe.






Syrians in Berlin tell of their flight from war-torn homeland. Words and pictures: Jacobia Dahm







Government forces battle Kurdish rebels in country’s southeast    







Scaremongering by xenophobic right-wing parties distorts reality    







Schools, shops and other businesses reopen in Syria’s third city following UN-brokered truce    







As Spain goes to polls, Ciudadanos’s Albert Rivera may become kingmaker, if not PM   

Which Daily Digest would you like?

  
  

Invalid email or password.
^The Irish Times:^

Username
Password
Log in or Join the euronews community
Have you forgotten your password?
Skip to main content
14/12 23:43 CET
   | updated xx mn ago
    | updated at xx
1450170067
1450133017
Saudi-led strikes in Yemen criticised by the UN for hitting civilian areas
India toughens up rape laws for youths
Accused army deserter Bowe Bergdahl appears in court
Alarm over Kurdish civilian casualties in operation Turkey says is targeting militants
Getting lucky with El Gordo
White Christmas cancelled due to warm weather
Bosnian police arrest 11 with Islamic State links
Police and protesters clash in Djibouti
Police search offices of Putin critic Mikhail Khodorkovsky
Soul-searching in Germany over printing of new edition of Hitler’s Mein Kampf
Africa: ‘catastrophic’ malnutrition amid Boko Haram violence
France: security tightened at places of worship ahead of festive season
Pu Zhiqiang: Chinese human rights lawyer gets suspended jail term
Refugees v migrants: the desperate battle to stay in Europe
Iraq army moves to oust ISIL militants from Ramadi
Migrants: more than a million arrive in the EU
El Gordo: Spain goes crazy for “The Fat One”
Hello Kitty customers exposed to hacker attacks
Sangin: who is in control?
Panama: supreme court orders detention of ex-President Martinelli
The Eurosceptic and anti-immigration MP Geert Wilders has been named politician of the year in a TV poll. He scooped 25 percent of the 37,000 votes and is the first politician to win the award three times which was introduced in the Netherlands in 2004.
“A great honour,” he said in a statement adding it was “an encouragement to fight more fervently for the interests of the Dutch people in 2016.”
Copyright © euronews 2015



^Euronews:^

