Times of India:^
 It took Gates seven years and $63 million to build his Medina, Washington, estate, named "Xanadu 2.
It's worth at least $123 million today.
 According to the King County public assessor's office, the property is worth $123.
Gates purchased the lot for $2 million in 1988.
 He reportedly pays around $1 million in property taxes each year.
Half a million board-feet of lumber was needed to complete the project.
 The house was built with 500-year-old Douglas fir trees, and 300 construction workers labored on the home — 100 of whom were electricians.
 The 2,300-square-foot hall could seat up to 150 people for a dinner party, or 200 people standing up at a cocktail event.
 Those bathrooms would definitely be useful if Gates were throwing such a big party.
 They're at different parts of the house so staff can be ready for any event.
An enormous library houses a manuscript Gates paid more than $30 million for.
The house — which has its own bedroom and bathroom — was meant to be a test of the technology that would eventually be used in the main house.
Gates has a favorite tree, and it's monitored electronically 24 hours a day.
Lucia's capital, is so close to the beach that you can check in, swim, and then board your plane.
Proceeds go to the company's charitable fund.


Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.
Let's work together to keep the conversation civil.

^Live Mint:^

Fed Rate Hike
EmTech Awards

Microsoft founder Bill Gates on financial inclusion in India, Aadhaar, sanitation and philanthropy in general

.

^Money Control:^
6% of GDP
RComm-Aircel merger talks: The bull vs bear case
Alkem, Dr Lal to make stock market debut on Wednesday
Companies look to milk money in fast-growing dairy market
Investors shy away from large-cap, US-exposed pharma stocks
Savers in dark over Sahara's latest shadow banking schemes
Google developing new messaging app: Report
Govt to compensate road developers in case of delays
Wipro to acquire BPaaS provider Viteos Group for $130 mn
Cabinet approves Rs 3,000 cr scheme for fisheries sector
Govt nod for re-construction of dam in Afghanistan
Nike beats on earnings; future orders soar
NALCO to set up eye hospital at Angul in Odisha
video of the day
Midcaps to shine; auto and pharma key themes: Dimensions
news videos
Worried about dollar strength, commodities in 2016: JPM AMC
Juvenile Bill to speed-up justice, reforms: Satyarthi
Expect corporate earnings to return soon; like pharma: Goel
Hope to become a big player in dairy biz: Adi Godrej


Copyright © e-Eighteen.
Reproduction of news articles, photos, videos or any other content in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of moneycontrol.

^Economic Times:^
 For years, Gates had prodded governments to increase spending on research and development of clean technologies.
He had sunk $1 billion of his own fortune into startups working on new kinds of batteries and nuclear reactors.
 "Honestly, I've been a bit surprised that the climate talks historically haven't had R&D; on the agenda in any way, shape or form," Gates, 60, said in an interview last week on the sidelines of the summit meeting, which concludes on Friday.
 The June tete-a-tete helped accelerate a sequence of events that led to one of the biggest public-private partnerships to tackle climate change, unveiled at the conference last week.
 Gates, who made billions from Microsoft before remaking himself as a philanthropist, was a lynchpin of the effort, acting as an envoy between the worlds of business and policy.
 Hollande and US President Barack Obama saw the tech mogul as a potential catalyst for achieving broad political and diplomatic goals at the climate conference.
 In particular, Gates' renown in India as a tech founder and philanthropist gave the French and US governments a key emissary to get Prime Minister Narendra Modi on board with their climate goals.
 Hollande and Obama agreed to work with Gates to assemble a coalition of governments to double their spending on energy R&D.
; For added heft, Gates volunteered to organise a group of billionaires to fund clean-technology startups.
It will commit 20 governments to doubling their renewable energy research budgets to a total of $20 billion over the next five years.
 In addition, Gates and a group of other wealthy businesspeople agreed to invest at least $2 billion in clean-energy startups — with half the money coming from Gates.
 The group plans to finance companies that turn promising clean-energy concepts, some of which will originate in government labs, into viable products.
 "Bill Gates is the intellectual architect of this," said Brian Deese, a senior adviser to Obama on energy and climate change policy, referring to the group of private investors.
 The partnership has drawn criticism.
With the new clean-energy fund, detractors say Gates and other members of the coalition are overly focused on energy moonshots that will take decades to pay off — if they ever do.
The World Bank has estimated the cost of such an effort at up to $100 billion annually.
 Gates said the coalition was focused on early-stage investments but any breakthrough startups could raise more capital to finance deployment of their technologies.
 "The more than $2 billion we have committed right now is just a start," he said.
"As deals come in and the government pipeline increases, that number will grow.
"
 Climate change has also been a concern for Gates, who has said that energy innovation needs government and industry cooperation.
While governments are suited to do the basic research that produced the technical foundations for the internet and other industries, he has said, companies need to bring those basic research breakthroughs into the marketplace.
 Gates said he knew he needed patient investors, because energy technologies typically take decades to refine and deploy.
"I think that kind of leadership fits very well to rally these kinds of investors in a coalition.
"I hope even more governments and investors will join us.

^prnw.cbe.thejakartapost.com:^
20, 2015 /PRNewswire/ — The Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum Global Initiatives and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation today launched a global thought leadership platform to help frame and stimulate regional and global debate on vital development issues shaping the Middle East.
com/players/uk/7719851-mohammed-al-maktoum-global-initiatives/
The “Middle East Exchange” will commission original articles from international experts including Nobel laureates, heads of state, academics and intellectuals.
New articles will be published weekly in newspapers globally on a wide range of topics relevant to the region, from health and education to development and innovation.
”
Mr Gates commented: “It’s great that our foundation has been working with His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid’s team and Project Syndicate to launch the Middle East Exchange.
”
The project is funded by the Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum Global Initiatives, the philanthropic and humanitarian foundation of H.
The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation will contribute articles and intellectual support through its global network of development experts.
