 It shouldn't be too surprising that one of the wealthiest people in the world also has an insanely extravagant home.  It took Gates seven years and $63 million to build his Medina, Washington, estate, named "Xanadu 2.0" after the fictional home of Charles Foster Kane, the title character of "Citizen Kane."  At 66,000 square feet, the home is absolutely massive, and it's loaded to the brim with high-tech details.  We've rounded up some of Xanadu 2.0's most over-the-top features here:  1. It's worth at least $123 million today.  According to the King County public assessor's office, the property is worth $123.54 million as of this year. Gates purchased the lot for $2 million in 1988.  He reportedly pays around $1 million in property taxes each year.  2. Half a million board-feet of lumber was needed to complete the project.  The house was built with 500-year-old Douglas fir trees, and 300 construction workers labored on the home — 100 of whom were electricians.  3. A high-tech sensor system helps guests monitor a room's climate and lighting.  When guests arrive, they're given a pin that interacts with sensors located all over the house. Guests enter their temperature and lighting preferences so that the settings change as they move throughout the home. Speakers hidden behind wallpaper allow music to follow you from room to room.  4. The house uses its natural surroundings to reduce heat loss.  Xanadu 2.0 is an "earth-sheltered" house, meaning that it's built into its surroundings to regulate temperature more efficiently.  5. You can change the artwork on the walls with just the touch of a button.  Situated around the house are $80,000 worth of computer screens. Anyone can make the screens display their favorite paintings or photographs, which are stored on devices worth $150,000.  6. The pool also has its own underwater music system.  The 60-foot pool is in its own separate, 3,900-square-foot building — the large brown building in the photo above. People in the pool could swim underneath a glass wall to come up to a terrace area on the outside.  There's also a locker room with four showers and two baths.  7. There's a trampoline room with a 20-foot ceiling.  No word on how big the trampoline is, but we can imagine it would be a fun alternative to your standard exercise routine.  The exercise facilities total 2,500 square feet and also include a sauna, steam room, and separate men's and women's locker rooms.  8. An enormous reception hall can accommodate up to 200 guests.  The 2,300-square-foot hall could seat up to 150 people for a dinner party, or 200 people standing up at a cocktail event. A 6-foot-wide limestone fireplace dominates one wall, while another wall has a 22-foot-wide video screen.  9. The house has 24 bathrooms, 10 of which are full baths.  Those bathrooms would definitely be useful if Gates were throwing such a big party. Otherwise, it seems a little over the top.  10. There are six kitchens.  They're at different parts of the house so staff can be ready for any event.  11. An enormous library houses a manuscript Gates paid more than $30 million for.  The 2,100-square-foot library has a dome roof and two secret bookcases, including one that reveals a hidden bar. On the ceiling you'll find a quote from "The Great Gatsby" that reads: "He had come a long way to this blue lawn, and his dream must have seemed so close that he could hardly fail to grasp it."  The library is also home to the Codex Leicester, a 16th-century Leonardo da Vinci manuscript that Gates bought at auction for $30.8 million in 1994.  12. The home theatre can accommodate 20 guests in plush seats.  It's designed in an Art Deco style, with comfortable arm chairs, couches, and even a popcorn machine for snacking.  13. An existing home was removed by barge to make room for a separate activities building.  The 900-square-foot building sits next to Gates' sport court, putting green, and boat docks.  14. The guest house is just as high-tech as the main house.  According to US News, the 1,900-square-foot guest house was the first building to be completed on the property. The house — which has its own bedroom and bathroom — was meant to be a test of the technology that would eventually be used in the main house.  15. Gates wrote much of "The Road Ahead" here.  Altogether, Gates' garages can accommodate up to 23 cars.  There are several different garages at different points around the property. The most interesting one, however, is an underground cave made out of concrete and stainless steel. That garage alone can park 10 cars. Some of the concrete was purposely broken to give it a rough, "deconstructivist" look.  16. Gates has a favorite tree, and it's monitored electronically 24 hours a day.  He reportedly became fond of a 40-year-old maple tree that grew close to the home's driveway. It's monitored by computer, and if at any point it becomes too dry, water is automatically pumped into it.  17. An artificial stream is kept stocked with fish.  The stream and wetland estuary were created to solve any problems with runoff that the property's large walls might have created. The water is kept stocked with salmon and sea-run cutthroat trout.  18. The sand on Gates' beach is imported from the Caribbean.  The airport of Castries, St. Lucia's capital, is so close to the beach that you can check in, swim, and then board your plane.  The lakefront shore contains sand that's delivered in large quantities by a barge from St. Lucia each year.  19. Someone once paid $35,000 just to tour it.  Microsoft holds an auction each year, where employees donate products and services to be bid on. Proceeds go to the company's charitable fund.  Gates has donated private tours of Xanadu 2.0 in the past. According to the Puget Sound Business Journal, a Microsoft employee once won the tour with a bid of $35,000. 

Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community. Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive. Let's work together to keep the conversation civil.
^Times of India:^

Fed Rate Hike
EmTech Awards

Microsoft founder Bill Gates on financial inclusion in India, Aadhaar, sanitation and philanthropy in general

^Live Mint:^

connect with
Don’t have an account?
Create One
New to Moneycontrol - Sign up now
Its easy and FREE! 
OR connect with
Bill Gates: Read these 6 books on your year-end holiday
On his blog, Microsoft co-founder and one of the the world's richest persons, Bill Gates, penned the list of his top 6 books from 2015.
ADS BY GOOGLE

 				Presenting Sponsor:   

Late-sell off: Sensex tumbles 145pts, Nifty ends below 7800
Global worries loom; FIIs to be net sellers in 2016 too: CS
Stocks in news: Tata Steel, Orchid Pharma, ONGC, HDFC Bank
Will KTMs new model launches be a bright spot for Bajaj
Infographic: Five reasons why crude oil is plummeting
Q2 current account deficit widens to $8.2bn; 1.6% of GDP
RComm-Aircel merger talks: The bull vs bear case
Alkem, Dr Lal to make stock market debut on Wednesday
Companies look to milk money in fast-growing dairy market
Investors shy away from large-cap, US-exposed pharma stocks
Savers in dark over Sahara's latest shadow banking schemes
Google developing new messaging app: Report
Govt to compensate road developers in case of delays
Wipro to acquire BPaaS provider Viteos Group for $130 mn
Cabinet approves Rs 3,000 cr scheme for fisheries sector
Govt nod for re-construction of dam in Afghanistan
Nike beats on earnings; future orders soar
NALCO to set up eye hospital at Angul in Odisha
video of the day
Midcaps to shine; auto and pharma key themes: Dimensions
news videos
Worried about dollar strength, commodities in 2016: JPM AMC
Juvenile Bill to speed-up justice, reforms: Satyarthi
Expect corporate earnings to return soon; like pharma: Goel
Hope to become a big player in dairy biz: Adi Godrej


Copyright © e-Eighteen.com Ltd. All rights reserved. Reproduction of news articles, photos, videos or any other content in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of moneycontrol.com is prohibited.
^Money Control:^

 By Coral Davenport & Nick Wingfi eld
 When Bill Gates arrived at the Elysee Palace to meet the French President Francois Hollande and other officials in June, he brought a message.
 Gates told Hollande that energy innovation needed to be a top agenda item at the climate change conference now taking place in this airport suburb outside Paris.
 For years, Gates had prodded governments to increase spending on research and development of clean technologies. He had sunk $1 billion of his own fortune into startups working on new kinds of batteries and nuclear reactors.
 "Honestly, I've been a bit surprised that the climate talks historically haven't had R&D; on the agenda in any way, shape or form," Gates, 60, said in an interview last week on the sidelines of the summit meeting, which concludes on Friday.
 The June tete-a-tete helped accelerate a sequence of events that led to one of the biggest public-private partnerships to tackle climate change, unveiled at the conference last week.
 Gates, who made billions from Microsoft before remaking himself as a philanthropist, was a lynchpin of the effort, acting as an envoy between the worlds of business and policy.
 For Gates, the world's richest person and co-chairman of the biggest private foundation, it is another sign of how his vast foreign aid operation and status as a technology icon have turned him into a uniquely influential global diplomat.
 Gates was drawn into the effort after the June meeting with Hollande and separate discussions with White House staff members in the summer.
 Hollande and US President Barack Obama saw the tech mogul as a potential catalyst for achieving broad political and diplomatic goals at the climate conference.
 In particular, Gates' renown in India as a tech founder and philanthropist gave the French and US governments a key emissary to get Prime Minister Narendra Modi on board with their climate goals.
 Hollande and Obama agreed to work with Gates to assemble a coalition of governments to double their spending on energy R&D.; For added heft, Gates volunteered to organise a group of billionaires to fund clean-technology startups.
 He reached out to his extensive network, including Jeff Bezos of Amazon, Jack Ma of Alibaba and Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook, all of whom agreed to participate.
 Last week, on the opening day of the Paris meeting, Gates joined Obama and Hollande to introduce the coalition. It will commit 20 governments to doubling their renewable energy research budgets to a total of $20 billion over the next five years.
 In addition, Gates and a group of other wealthy businesspeople agreed to invest at least $2 billion in clean-energy startups — with half the money coming from Gates.
 The group plans to finance companies that turn promising clean-energy concepts, some of which will originate in government labs, into viable products. Some of the companies will fail, Gates warned.
 "Bill Gates is the intellectual architect of this," said Brian Deese, a senior adviser to Obama on energy and climate change policy, referring to the group of private investors.
 The partnership has drawn criticism. With the new clean-energy fund, detractors say Gates and other members of the coalition are overly focused on energy moonshots that will take decades to pay off — if they ever do.
 The coalition will not come close to supplying what is needed to make the global energy transition necessary to stop climate change. The World Bank has estimated the cost of such an effort at up to $100 billion annually.
 Gates said the coalition was focused on early-stage investments but any breakthrough startups could raise more capital to finance deployment of their technologies.
 "The more than $2 billion we have committed right now is just a start," he said. "As deals come in and the government pipeline increases, that number will grow."
 Climate change has also been a concern for Gates, who has said that energy innovation needs government and industry cooperation. While governments are suited to do the basic research that produced the technical foundations for the internet and other industries, he has said, companies need to bring those basic research breakthroughs into the marketplace.
 In June, Gates met Hollande to lay out his ideas. Over the summer, Gates discussed it with Obama's top aides. Both Obama and Hollande saw Gates as potentially helpful in wooing Modi to sign a climate deal in Paris.
 Gates and Modi met in India last year, engaging in a dialogue about toilets. Modi had vowed to end open defecation in India, Gates' foundation has sponsored efforts to improve toilets.
 In September, Hollande invited Gates and Modi to meet on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly in New York. Gates wanted Modi's support for higher clean-tech spending, said a person familiar with Gates' thinking.
 Gates said he knew he needed patient investors, because energy technologies typically take decades to refine and deploy. So he reached out to contacts worldwide, including the Saudi prince Alwaleed bin Talal and the Indian industrialist Ratan Tata.
 Gates also emailed Neil Shen, an entrepreneur and venture capitalist in China. "He knows many parts of the global economy," Shen said of Gates. "I think that kind of leadership fits very well to rally these kinds of investors in a coalition."
 For Gates, the partnership is only a small step forward. "Given the scale of the challenge, we need to be exploring many different paths," he wrote last week. "I hope even more governments and investors will join us."
 
^Economic Times:^

ABU DHABI, United Arab Emirates, Dec. 20, 2015 /PRNewswire/ — The Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum Global Initiatives and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation today launched a global thought leadership platform to help frame and stimulate regional and global debate on vital development issues shaping the Middle East.
To view the Multimedia News Release, please click: http://www.multivu.com/players/uk/7719851-mohammed-al-maktoum-global-initiatives/
The “Middle East Exchange” will commission original articles from international experts including Nobel laureates, heads of state, academics and intellectuals. New articles will be published weekly in newspapers globally on a wide range of topics relevant to the region, from health and education to development and innovation.
UAE Minister of Cabinet Affairs His Excellency Mohammed Al Gergawi discussed the project at a meeting with Bill Gates, Co-Chair of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, in Abu Dhabi on December 6. Speaking after the meeting, H.E. Al Gergawi said:
“The Middle East has spent too long in the global spotlight as a source of conflict and trouble. His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid’s vision is for innovative and tangible solutions that benefit people’s lives on the ground. There is a huge appetite for practical ideas. The Middle East Exchange will be the number one global platform for positive voices and ideas for the Middle East.”
Mr Gates commented: “It’s great that our foundation has been working with His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid’s team and Project Syndicate to launch the Middle East Exchange. This is an exciting platform to raise awareness, encourage debate, and promote local solutions to development challenges facing the wider region.”
The project is funded by the Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum Global Initiatives, the philanthropic and humanitarian foundation of H.H. Sheikh Mohammed, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai. The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation will contribute articles and intellectual support through its global network of development experts.
The Middle East Exchange will be managed as an independent editorial operation by Project Syndicate, a global non-profit dedicated to distributing progressive editorial content. Project Syndicate will translate all articles into at least 12 languages and distribute them to its 468 member publications, who have 300 million readers in 154 countries. Contributors to Project Syndicate include 45 Nobel laureates and 111 heads of state.
The Middle East Exchange will focus on human development, innovation, public health, education, tolerance, sustainability, poverty, youth, skills, employment, entrepreneurship, food, water, and other shared priorities.
The series is being launched with globally syndicated articles by Bill Gates, former UK Prime Minster Gordon Brown, and economist Jeffrey Sachs.
(Photo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20151217/296905)
Video: http://www.multivu.com/players/uk/7719851-mohammed-al-maktoum-global-initiatives/



    
      
 
    
    
      
 
    
    
 
    
 
  

ENGLEWOOD CLIFFS, N.J., Dec. 22, 2015 /PR...


ENGLEWOOD CLIFFS, N.J., Dec. 22, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- LG Electronics (LG) is planning to shake up...


MIAMI, Dec. 23, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- PortMiami working with partner Florida East Coast Railway (F...



    

KYIV, Ukraine, Dec. 23, 2015 /PRNewswire/ --

  

The defence lawyers for Sergiy Arbuzov, e...


HONG KONG, Dec. 23, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- With just a few weeks to go to Smart Traveller Asia 2016 ...


HONG KONG, Dec. 23, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- With just a few weeks to go to Smart Traveller Asia 2016 ...


HONG KONG, Dec. 23, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- With just a few weeks to go to Smart Traveller Asia 2016 ...


LONDON, Dec. 23, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- Appnext, the leading app monetization and distribution plat...


LOS ANGELES, Dec. 22, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- After the debut of SHOTOVER's new U1 at the 2nd annual ...


AMES, Iowa, Dec. 22, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- In 2015, PowerFilm™, Inc. proudly announced the relea...
© 2014 PT. Niskala Media Tenggara
^prnw.cbe.thejakartapost.com:^

New Delhi: Microsoft founder and philanthropist Bill Gates on Friday promised to extend all support to Centre’s efforts to expand the reach and effectiveness of sustainable sanitation services under the Swachh Bharat Mission.Urban Development Minister M Venkaiah Naidu and Gates, who is Co-Chair of Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, discussed at length implementation of the sanitation campaign in urban areas of the country.“Foundation’s cooperation with India to promote safe and sustainable sanitation services to all is one of its best partnerships,” Gates said after the meeting.The foundation had signed a Memorandum of Cooperation with the UD Ministry to promote sanitation services in January this year.Naidu informed Gates that “after a slow start, all the states are now becoming pro-active to ensure cleanliness following huge enthusiasm generated among the public about sanitation in urban areas.“Clean India can’t be achieved overnight but a good beginning has been made in that direction and efforts are to make Swachh Bharat Mission a people’s movement.”The Microsoft founder referred to various approaches to promote sanitation and suggested that attention needs to be paid to fecal sludge management which gives better returns in terms of health impacts.Gates stressed on the need to set up decentralized sludge processing facilities for processing of fecal matter.He noted that individual toilets have been built on a large scale in Africa but their usage is low and emphasised the need for bringing quality toilet technologies to the people.Gates expressed happiness with the ongoing cooperation with the Ministry and assured it of full support to further collective goals around expanding the reach and effectiveness of safe and sustainable sanitation services to people of India.Naidu said that along with construction of individual and community toilets, the government is focusing on solid waste and septage management. Policy initiatives for promoting procurement of energy and compost produced from municipal solid waste are at an advanced stage of consideration.UD Secretary Madhusudan Prasad and senior officials of the Ministry and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation also participated in the discussion.
New Delhi: Microsoft founder and philanthropist Bill Gates on Friday promised to extend all support to Centre’s efforts to expand the reach and effectiveness of sustainable sanitation services under the Swachh Bharat Mission.
Urban Development Minister M Venkaiah Naidu and Gates, who is Co-Chair of Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, discussed at length implementation of the sanitation campaign in urban areas of the country.
“Foundation’s cooperation with India to promote safe and sustainable sanitation services to all is one of its best partnerships,” Gates said after the meeting.
The foundation had signed a Memorandum of Cooperation with the UD Ministry to promote sanitation services in January this year.
Naidu informed Gates that “after a slow start, all the states are now becoming pro-active to ensure cleanliness following huge enthusiasm generated among the public about sanitation in urban areas.
“Clean India can’t be achieved overnight but a good beginning has been made in that direction and efforts are to make Swachh Bharat Mission a people’s movement.”
The Microsoft founder referred to various approaches to promote sanitation and suggested that attention needs to be paid to fecal sludge management which gives better returns in terms of health impacts.
Gates stressed on the need to set up decentralized sludge processing facilities for processing of fecal matter.
He noted that individual toilets have been built on a large scale in Africa but their usage is low and emphasised the need for bringing quality toilet technologies to the people.
Gates expressed happiness with the ongoing cooperation with the Ministry and assured it of full support to further collective goals around expanding the reach and effectiveness of safe and sustainable sanitation services to people of India.
Naidu said that along with construction of individual and community toilets, the government is focusing on solid waste and septage management. Policy initiatives for promoting procurement of energy and compost produced from municipal solid waste are at an advanced stage of consideration.
UD Secretary Madhusudan Prasad and senior officials of the Ministry and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation also participated in the discussion.
For latest news on mobile and tablet, download IndiaTV Android app and iOS app.
                Also like IndiaTV's official  Facebook page and follow us on Twitter to stay tuned to latest news.
              

Whether it's a suggestion or any service
          which you think needs our attention or a complaint.


Please Select
Contribute Video

          Please select from the above.
        
^India TV:^

Meat doesn't have to come from an animal to be nutritious. That's the idea behind Beyond Meat, a startup that aims to manufacture fake meat using a patented technology and plant products.  Founder Ethan Brown grew up in Washington, DC, with a professor father who had a real passion for agriculture.  On the weekends and over the summer, he and his family would travel to a hobby farm they owned in rural Maryland. The farm eventually grew into a full-fledged dairy operation.  "I spent enough time there to get the notion that there must be a better way to do this," Brown told Business Insider. "Meat is well understood in terms of its core parts, as well as its architecture. Meat is basically five things: Amino acids, lipids, and water, plus some trace minerals and trace carbohydrates. These are all things that are abundant in non-animal sources and in plants."  "The challenge is to take those core parts from plants and assemble them in the architecture of meat."  But why avoid meat in the first place?  "Raising livestock is an incredibly inefficient way of producing protein. It takes a lot of land, a lot of energy, and a lot of water just to generate one pound of meat from an animal. About 30% of the animal is meat we eat; the rest is not useful," Brown said. "By manufacturing meat, we can simultaneously solve four problems."  He calls those problems "the four horsemen" - climate change, animal welfare, natural resources, and human health. Brown himself became a vegetarian when he was 18.  "A lot of people are uncomfortable with the way animals are slaughtered today," he said. "But we also have an unnatural number of animals living today, and when they breathe, they're expelling carbon."  He cites a landmark study published by environmentalists Robert Goodland and Jeff Anhang in 2009: "The single largest contributor to greenhouse gas emissions globally is livestock. It's not automobiles, it's not power plants, it's livestock."  Bill Gates was impressed  In 2009, Brown, who has a background in fuel cell engineering, began working with a pair of professors at the University of Missouri -- Fu-Hung Hsieh and Harold Huff -- who had been developing their own platform for realigning proteins in plants. The team received several grants from the state to further develop the technology, which became the device that Beyond Meat uses to manufacture meat today.  While the company's main plant is still located in Missouri, it has opened its main headquarters and research and development facilities in El Segundo, California, a small town just outside Los Angeles.    This is one of the machines Beyond Meat uses to construct its products.  In 2011, they scored an investment from Kleiner Perkins, the venture capital firm's first investment in a food startup. The Obvious Corporation -- founded by Twitter co-founders Evan Williams and Biz Stone -- would join Bill Gates, Taiwan's Tsai family, Morgan Creek Capital, DNS Capital, and Honest Tea founder Seth Goldman as later investors.  "It's a powerful notion that you can potentially impact things globally very quickly by making this simple change," Brown said.  In 2013, Gates wrote a blog post about his experience trying a chicken taco made with plant-based meat from Beyond Meat.  "Like most people, I don't think I can be easily fooled. But that's just what happened when I was asked to taste a chicken taco and tell whether the meat inside was real or fake.  The meat certainly had the look and the smell of chicken. I took a bite and it had the taste and texture of real chicken, too. But I was surprised to learn that there wasn't an ounce of real chicken it. The 'meat' was made entirely of plants. And yet, I couldn't tell the difference.  What I was experiencing was more than a clever meat substitute. It was a taste of the future of food."  In 2014, Whole Foods was forced to recall two curried chicken salads served in stores in the Northeast after mixing up the labels for the actual chicken and Beyond Meat's version. According to the New York Times' report of the incident, none of the customers could even tell a mistake had been made.  Still, Brown says the team has plenty of work to do.  "We're not there yet. It will be a while before we perfectly replicate meat, but fortunately for us, if you put it our product in a taco or bolognese or something, it's very hard to tell the difference," he said. "Naked side by side, it's still clear which one is plant-based."  And the company certainly has its detractors, like Mother Jones writer Tom Philpott, whose disparaging words the team hung on a wall in its El Segundo R&D facility.    Brown says that the Beast Burger, made primarily from a non-GMO pea protein, continues to be one of the brand's most popular products.  All of Beyond Meat's chicken and beef products can now be purchased in more than 4,000 stores across the country, including Whole Foods, Target, and some conventional grocery stores. 

Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community. Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive. Let's work together to keep the conversation civil.
^Times of India:^

