Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Somnath Bharti on Tuesday alleged the people have rejected Prime Minister Narendra Modi's way of governance, and said that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) raid on the Delhi Secretariat reflected the deeply perturbed mindset of the NDA Government post the humiliating defeat in Bihar. The CBI had earlier this morning conducted a raid on the Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's office. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal earlier claimed that the CBI raided his office at the behest of Prime Minister Modi. Refuting Kejriwal's allegation, the CBI has said that the raid was conducted on the Principal Secretary's office following a warrant. Meanwhile, Kejriwal accused the CBI of 'lying' and asserted that they were looking at the files in the Chief Minister's office.
^Yahoo! India News:^


Delhi Police today summoned Aam Aadmi Party legislator Somnath Bharti, along with 'Don,' his pet dog, in connection with a domestic violence case filed by his wife Lipika Mitra.Before leaving for Dwarka North Police Station, Mr Bharti took to Twitter and said he was directed by police officials to come with his pet, a Labrador, to join the investigation process.  '''Directed by IO to come with the dog for investigation, I am on my way to sector 23 Dwarka PS with Don. Don't know what they want 4m Don now,'' the former law minister tweeted.Accusing Delhi Police of harassing his dog in the name of Investigation, Mr Bharti also took a jibe at Union Minister Menaka Gandhi, known for her affection towards animals, questioning her silence on the issue.''Being 4m AAP I hv no choice bt 2 live with harassement by del pol in the name of investigation bt what wrong hs Don done? Where is Menakaji?,'' Mr Bharti said.''Today was my 12th visit to DCP office. Each visit costs 4-5 hours. On my time exclusive right is of Janta which is being wasted 4 what?? the AAP MLA said.After appearing before police officials, Mr Bharti alleged that though he was fully cooperating with them, officials were unnecessary troubling  him and his dog in the name of investigation.''I am fully cooperating with Police officials but they are harassing my dog by making him to appear now and then in police station,'' he added.Mr Bharti was facing allegations hurled by his wife that he had unleashed his dog on her with an intent to harm her, when she was pregnant. UNI RG RJ 2206 -- (UNI) -- C-1-1-DL0377-481478.Xml
1234

 -- (UNI) -- C-1-1-DL0377-481478.Xml
1234

^Webindia 123:^

Several AAP MLAs were pulled up by Delhi Assembly Speaker Ram Niwas Goel Tuesday for repeatedly taking potshots at Finance Minister Arun Jaitley during a special session of the House. The session had been convened to constitute a commission of inquiry into alleged financial irregularities in the Delhi and District Cricket Association (DDCA) while Jaitley was its president.
Goel’s exhortations to the MLAs — to refrain from naming central minister or ministers in the House — had little effect.
The Speaker urged AAP MLAs to refer to Jaitley as former DDCA president or current finance minister, but they continued to name him. Here is what some of them said:
* Tourist Minister Kapil Mishra: “Tum itna kyun gussa ho rahe ho…. kya khushi hai jisko chhupa rahe ho… (why are you being so angry… why are you trying to hide your joy)… If, by mistake, I take Jaitley’s name, please replace it with sophisticated Kalmadi or padha likha (educated) Kalmadi. The CBI will get nothing from the raid on CM’s office”.
* AAP MLA Somnath Bharti: “Bhrastachaar pe jung jaari hai, ab Jaitley ki baari hai.. jinka maan na ho uski maanhaani kaise (the war against corruption is on…now it is Jaitley’s turn..how can someone who has no honour be defamed…)”.
* AAP MLA Jarnail Singh: “Many fake companies have been formed… besharmi ki hadd hai… (This is the height of shamelessness). The prime minister is defending the finance minister. People will not take much time to send you to Tihar Jail from Parliament”.
*AAP MLA Vijendra Garg: “Someone who could not win an election has become Union finance minister. This is unfortunate”.
* AAP MLA Nitin Tyagi: “Jinhe Punjab ke logo ne nakaar diya unhe desh pe thop diya. (Someone rejected by voters in Punjab was imposed on us)”.

Pragya KaushikaSpecial Correspondent

The Indian Express

Covering Delhi governme... read more

Pragya KaushikaSpecial Correspondent

The Indian Express

Covering Delhi governme... read more
^The Indian Express:^

 New Delhi: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal's decision to appoint senior advocate Gopal Subramanium to head a panel to probe alleged irregularities in DDCA is hardly surprising as the jurist has been one of AAP government's preferred legal advisers.  Soon after his name was opposed by the Narendra Modi government for judgeship of the Supreme Court leading to unilateral withdrawal of candidature by him, the ex-solicitor general's professional services were sought out regularly by the AAP government.  For example, on the contentious issue of who has the power to appoint secretary in Delhi government, Subramaniam backed AAP government's authority to decide on the reshuffle. In his letter to the government, the senior lawyer opined that "Exercise of powers by government can not be overruled by LG as this violates Constitutional scheme. It is constitutionally unviable for LG to act de hors the aid and advice of council of ministers".  The letter was in response to the Delhi government after it sought his views over the issue of powers of the LG to appoint a chief secretary. Relying largely on this opinion the state government even called for a special assembly session to denounce a home ministry notification authorizing LG to appoint bureaucrats.  Later, embattled AAP functionary Somnath Bharti fielded Subramaniam in SC while seeking relief in the domestic violence case filed by his wife. The SC had, however, refused to grant him relief leading to his arrest and judicial custody.  Subramanium was also appointed as special public prosecutor in the Nitish Katara murder case in the Supreme Court for seeking death penalty to Vikas and Vishal Yadav as wll as Sukhdev Pehelwan. On a request by victim's mother Neelam Katara, the government decided to rope in the ex-SG.  Kejriwal's move has elicited a sharp reaction from the Centre. Sources insist the power to set up a probe under the Commission of Inquiry Act is with Centre and not Delhi government given the special status of the Union Territory. 

Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community. Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive. Let's work together to keep the conversation civil.
^Times of India:^


In pics: Cheapest cars in world  


What your most preferred beverage says about your personality?


This is what scares your Bollywood stars


ZTE launches Axon Max with 6-inch display


I am really amazing boyfriend: Ranveer Singh


Lionel Messi shines as Barcelona win third Club World Cup title 


Targeting gut microbes may lower heart disease risk: Study


PM Modi to personally greet each policeman in country on Republic Day     


Darius Chenai clinches gold in Men's Trap World Championship


Gautam Gulati hopes for Bollywood debut


FIFA hands eight years ban to Sepp Blatter, Michel Platini


Lok Sabha discusses National Waterways Bill

New Delhi: Hitting back at AAP after it launched a fresh attack  on Arun Jaitley, BJP alleged that Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal  has become a 'champion of lies' from a self-appointed champion against  corruption and is 'abusing' everybody to save his 'corrupt' colleagues.

BJP dismissed as 'false and foolish' five questions posed to the Finance Minister by AAP leader Ashutosh and accused AAP of using 'diversionary tactic' to deflect attention from the corruption charges against Kejriwal's principal secretary. The allegations levelled by AAP are old charges already countered by Jaitley and DDCA, Delhi's cricket body.    "Jaitley has been in public life for longer than the age of Kejriwal and his integrity has never been in question. Kejriwal and his party have been levelling such false and foolish charges just to save a corrupt officer", BJP media cell in-charge Shrikant Sharma said, wondering why AAP was going to such lengths to save an officer.Kejriwal is 'abusing' Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Jaitley and is attacking media, he said.Sharma alleged that Kejriwal has always defended his colleagues found on the wrong side of law and recalled how he had protected former Delhi Law ministers Jitender Singh Tomar and Somnath Bharti, who have faced charges of forging certificate and domestic violence respectively and were arrested.    "Kejriwal was a self appointed champion against corruption. In power, he has become a champion of lies", he said, adding that in his frustration, Kejriwal was also targeting media.

BJP dismissed as 'false and foolish' five questions posed to the Finance Minister by AAP leader Ashutosh and accused AAP of using 'diversionary tactic' to deflect attention from the corruption charges against Kejriwal's principal secretary. The allegations levelled by AAP are old charges already countered by Jaitley and DDCA, Delhi's cricket body.    "Jaitley has been in public life for longer than the age of Kejriwal and his integrity has never been in question. Kejriwal and his party have been levelling such false and foolish charges just to save a corrupt officer", BJP media cell in-charge Shrikant Sharma said, wondering why AAP was going to such lengths to save an officer.Kejriwal is 'abusing' Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Jaitley and is attacking media, he said.Sharma alleged that Kejriwal has always defended his colleagues found on the wrong side of law and recalled how he had protected former Delhi Law ministers Jitender Singh Tomar and Somnath Bharti, who have faced charges of forging certificate and domestic violence respectively and were arrested.    "Kejriwal was a self appointed champion against corruption. In power, he has become a champion of lies", he said, adding that in his frustration, Kejriwal was also targeting media.
^Post:^

New Delhi:                     Hitting back at the Aam Aadmi Party after it launched a fresh attack on Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, the BJP has alleged that Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had become a "champion of lies" from a self-appointed champion against corruption and was "abusing" everybody to save his "corrupt" colleagues.
The BJP dismissed as "false and foolish" five questions posed to the Finance Minister by AAP leader Ashutosh and accused the party of using "diversionary tactic" to deflect attention from the corruption charges against Mr Kejriwal's principal secretary.
"Jaitley has been in public life for longer than the age of Kejriwal and his integrity has never been in question. Kejriwal and his party have been levelling such false and foolish charges just to save a corrupt officer," BJP media cell in-charge Shrikant Sharma said, wondering why the AAP was going to such lengths to save an officer.Mr Kejriwal is "abusing" Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr Jaitley and is attacking the media, he said.
Mr Sharma alleged that Mr Kejriwal has always defended his colleagues found on the wrong side of law and recalled how he had protected former Delhi Law ministers Jitender Singh Tomar and Somnath Bharti, who have faced charges of forging certificate and domestic violence respectively and were arrested.
"Kejriwal was a self-appointed champion against corruption. In power, he has become a champion of lies," he said, adding that in his frustration, Mr Kejriwal was also targeting the media.
Calling Mr Jaitley a "master of half-truth and beautiful lies", AAP's Ashutosh had made certain fresh allegations against him and said his comment that there were no specific charges against him was "misleading".                
Sections
The BJP says Arvind Kejriwal has always defended his colleagues found on the wrong side of law. (File photo from PTI)
Share this story on
................................ Advertisement ................................
................................ Advertisement ................................
^NDTV:^





















^ANI NEWS:^


'' Love, hate, but you cannot ignore me'' was true for the Aam Aadmi Party(AAP) throughout the year.There  was never a dull moment for media to cover it in action.After its 49 days stint of  governance at the heart of the country, which abruptly ended in February 2014, the party saw a makeover and registered its behemoth presence in the successive year by winning Assembly elections with a thumping majority.Due credit is attributable to its convener, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who has till date remained as an unshakable pillar of confidence for the party.With February having ushered in promises, challenges and expectations to the party, it made sure to tread the path of realpolitik with caution.Everything seemed manageable and smooth until party MLA Somnath Bharti was squarely criticised for his Khirki Extension raid at midnight, which dealt a blow to people's expectations from the party.It also came as a shocker for the party when its two founding members Yogendra Yadav, who heads 'Swaraj Abhiyaan' now and Prashant Bhushan called it a day to end their membership with the party, following difference in ideologies between them and the party chief, Mr Kejriwal. Though, they were later coaxed and cajoled to let begones be bygones and contribute towards making the party stronger, efforts went in vain.In June Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia presented the AAP's maiden budget, saying by presenting the 'Swaraj Budget', the party tried to live up to "Aam Aadmi's expectation".Also, this was the first time that an unprecedented share in the budget was allocated for education.However, the party was later criticised by Opposition for spending Rs 526 crore in advertisement alone.Newspapers, radio and other media became the party's mouthpiece to gain public confidence and reclaim trust, which was wavered with the quitting of major party stalwarts and internal rift.AAP also faced major embarrassment  with the arrest of its then Delhi Law Minister Jitender Singh Tomar on charges of cheating, forgery and getting jobs on fake degree.In what can be described as an 'audacity of hope' the AAP patron harped on the need to wrest the control of Delhi Police, called it 'thulla' and raised many eyebrows, which questioned the modus operandi of the party and earned it the sobriquet of 'anarchist' everywhere.Later, arrest of other party MLAs including Commando Surinder Singh in caste slur case, imbroglio in which Kumar Vishwas was attacked sharply by women activists, Somnath Bharti again hogging the limelight and inviting a chance for another round of slugfest were seen as the perfect Achilles' Heel by the Opposition to attack upon.The party tried to portray itself as messiah against all odds, but was left unanswerable when its own party members exhibited tomfoolery one after the other.What can be seen as an image makeover for the party, pollution suddenly came to the centre-stage of political affairs of the party and drew attention from friends and foes of the party alike.October saw Delhi cycling all the way to tackle the menace of pollution with party's every member participating in unison to fight for the cause.It was also a historic year for the party, as it conducted its second and the longest winter Assembly Session, which was marked by high-voltage drama with all its women MLAs jumping into the well and shouting for their voices to be heard against harassment besides passing of 15 significant Bills.However, pollution here too dominated the House proceedings with every party member batting their concern only to make Delhi green.The fag-end of the year for AAP concluded with its dual battle--be it raid on the Delhi Secretariat, dragging the party into corruption charges or making the city breath easy with its experimentation of the odd-even formula.UNI PR ADG RP1432 -- (UNI) -- C-1-1-DL0298-496142.Xml
1234

 -- (UNI) -- C-1-1-DL0298-496142.Xml
1234

^Webindia 123:^

Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Somnath Bharti on Tuesday alleged the people have rejected Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘model of Hitler governance’ and said that the CBI raid on the Delhi Secretariat reflected the deeply perturbed mindset of the latter post the humiliating defeat in Bihar.
“It basically proves that deeply perturbed by the massive defeat in Delhi followed by massive defeat in Bihar, Mr. Modi is forcing his own as well as his party’s political death. He is not seeing any future of his own as well as of his party. In that perspective, he has lost mental balance,” Bharti told ANI.
“The entire democratic fabric of state-Centre relationship stands disturbed. He has caused damages in Arunachal Pradesh, in Bihar, in Delhi time and again. He is not understanding that people have rejected his model of Hitler governance,” he added while expressing his surprise over the CBI raid.
The government, however, justified the CBI raid on the Delhi Secretariat with Minister of State for Environment and Forests Prakash Javadekar alleging that the hypocrisy of AAP stands exposed.
Javadekar dubbed Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s reaction on the CBI raid as ‘atrocious’.
“The CBI (conducts) raids only when they receive a credible complaint and they want to investigate the corruption. Does Arvind Kejriwal want to protect corruption?” asked Javadekar.
“Instead of immediately taking action against his own officials, who are found for corruption, he is accusing the Prime Minister. This is worst kind of politics,” he added.
Javadekar alleged this is the worst scenario Delhi has ever witnessed as a sitting Chief Minister is protecting corruption.
Kejriwal earlier claimed that the CBI raided his office at the behest of Prime Minister Modi. He also went as far as to call the Prime Minister a ‘coward and a psychopath’.
“CBI lying. My own office raided. Files of CM office are being looked into. Let Modi say which file he wants?” Kejriwal tweeted.
“I am the only CM who dismissed, on my own, a minister n a senior officer on charges of corruption and handed their cases to CBI. If CBI had any evidence against Rajender, why didn’t they share it wid me? I wud hv acted against him,” he said in another tweet.
The CBI has registered a case against Kejriwal’s Principal Secretary Rajender Kumar for allegedly favouring a firm in getting contracts from Delhi government.
“FM lied in Parliament. My own office files are being looked into to get some evidence against me. Rajender is an excuse,” tweeted Kejriwal.
Refuting Kejriwal’s allegation on the raid on Chief Minister’s office, the CBI has said that the raid was conducted on the Principal Secretary’s office following a warrant.
First Published on December 15, 2015 9:43 pm
Tax Calculator
House Loan Calculator
Financial Planner
Inflation Planner
Pension Calculator
Employee PF Calculator
Equity Screener
Auto Loan
Retirement Plan
Savings
Investment Guidance
 Go to Top 
Copyright ©
        
									var thisdate = new Date();
									var dataStr;
									dataStr = thisdate.getFullYear();
									document.write(dataStr);
				 The Indian Express [P] Ltd. All Rights Reserved. 
^Financial Express:^

